GOOD EVENING EVERYONE
AND WELCOME TO THE DECEMBER 16
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
DESCRIBE
ALL WHAT OUR CLERK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH PRESENT
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON ABSENT
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON ABSENT
COUNCILMAN MALIK.
HERE COMES MY DENHA HERE
COUNCILMAN GARCIA ONE HERE
MAYOR TAYLOR HERE COMES OUR IRE
FOR AKMAN HERE.
THAT'S BRIGGS HERE.
>> COUNCILMAN CORNELL HERE WE
HAVE A QUORUM.
WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE YOUR AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNTERPROTESTS BY COUNCIL
MEMBER OF DENHA DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH AND MOVE TO AMEND THE
AGENDA TO ENABLE A CLOSED
SESSION PRIOR TO THE DC ONE YES
DC WANT TO MOVE SO TO MOVE OUR
CLOSED SESSION FROM WHERE IT IS
TO WHERE IT MIGHT MIGHT YES I
THINK THAT IS WHAT I MEAN TO
DO.
>> IS THERE A SECOND THAT
FINALLY THE BODY ACCEPTANCE
FRIENDLY FOR THE DISCUSSION THE
AGENDA AS AMENDED POR FAVOR
POSED THE AGENDA IS APPROVED
THEIR COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR NO MAYOR
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF INTRODUCTION FROM THE
CHIPOLATA.
MR CARPENTER, WELCOME.
YOU HAVE THE GOOD EVENING.
>> THANK YOU, MR. MAYOR.
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.
HAPPY HOLIDAYS.
I HOPE YOU ARE ALL A LITTLE
FURTHER AHEAD IN YOUR
PREPARATIONS THAN I AM.
SO I WILL BE BRIEF THIS EVENING
AS I HAVE A FEW OTHER THINGS TO
DO.
IT'S A PLEASURE TO BE HERE AS
I'M SURE LIKE YOU WERE WRAPPING
THINGS UP FOR THE YEAR OVER THE
RIDE BUT I HAVE A COUPLE
OF RECAPS AND THINGS TO LOOK
FORWARD TO WITH TO THAT I CAN
SHARE WITH YOU.
FIRST OF ALL I THINK IT'S BEEN
A BIG YEAR FOR US ON A COUPLE
OF FRONTS.
TWO THINGS YOU MAY RECALL WE
WANT A MILLAGE IN TWENTY TWENTY
TWO THOSE FUNDS BEGINNING
ARRIVING THIS SUMMER AND I'M
HAPPY TO LET YOU AND EVERYONE
KNOW THAT ALL THE PROMISES MADE
IN THAT VILLAGE, ALL THE
SERVICES THAT ARE COMMITTED TO
HAVE BEEN DELIVERED SOME
OF THEM WERE DELIVERED IN
AUGUST, SOME OF THEM EARLIER IN
THE YEAR.
SO WE'RE HAPPY TO SAY PROMISES
ONCE AGAIN AND EXCITED FOR ALL
OF OUR RESIDENTS HERE AND
ELSEWHERE IN THE COUNTY.
WE'RE PROVIDING MORE FREQUENT
SERVICE ON THE WEEKENDS, LONGER
HOURS OF SERVICE ON ALL DAYS
AND IT'S SOMETHING THAT I THINK
DOVETAILS VERY WELL WITH THE
CITY'S COMMITMENTS TO CLIMATE
ACTION AND PARTICULARLY THE T
ONE ZONING OPPORTUNITY.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR THAT.
>> WE'RE HAPPY TO LET FOLKS
KNOW WE ARE HAVING SOME HOLIDAY
SERVICE CHANGES IF ANYONE'S
INTERESTED ABOUT THE HOLIDAY
HOURS FOR THE BUSSES THIS WEEK
AND OVER THE HOLIDAYS, PLEASE
CHECK OUR WEBSITE OR OUR SOCIAL
MEDIA.
ANOTHER BIG THING THAT HAPPENED
THIS YEAR AS SOME OF YOU WILL
REMEMBER AND SOME OF YOU WERE
THERE WE HAD A TWENTY FIVE
BILLION DOLLAR GRANT TO WIN
FROM THE FEDERAL TRANSIT
ADMINISTRATION.
THANK YOU, MR. MAYOR AND OTHERS
FOR BEING THERE AND SPEAKING.
WE ARE LOOKING FORWARD TO
PULLING THE TRIGGER ON ALL
OF THAT STUFF EARLY IN THE NEW
YEAR.
I WILL SHARE WITH YOU AS WE'VE
SHARED WITH OUR BOARD THERE IS
SOME QUESTIONS COMING UP ABOUT
THE INCOMING PRESIDENTIAL
ADMINISTRATIONS FEELING TOWARDS
IN PROGRESS GRANTS.
WE'RE WORKING TO MAKE SURE
WE'VE TIGHTENED DOWN EVERYTHING
WE CAN ON OUR END AND I'LL MAKE
SURE TO GIVE YOU THE ALL CLEAR
AS SOON WE'RE SURE THE FUNDS
HAVE BEEN NAILED DOWN AND
THEY'RE GOING TO BE DELIVERED.
>> ANOTHER BIG THING IT'S BEEN
A BIG DEAL FOR US THIS YEAR
THAT WILL BE IMPORTANT COMING
FORWARD.
YOU MAY RECALL THAT WE REBUILT
THE ANN ARBOR DOWNTOWN BUS
TERMINAL ABOUT TEN YEARS AGO
THE BLAK WE'RE MAKING GREAT
STRIDES ON PLANS FOR THE
YPSILANTI TRANSIT CENTER.
WE HOPE TO START TURNING MAYBE
IN TWENTY TWENTY SEVEN BUT
WE'RE HAVING A LOT OF FUN WITH
OUR COLLEAGUES IN YPSILANTI
OVER THE PLANNING PROCESSES.
IF YOU HEAR SOMETHING ABOUT
THAT, I'D BE HAPPY TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS.
AND THEN FINALLY THE GET
DOWNTOWN PROGRAM WHICH SOME
OF YOU MAY RECALL IS A
PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN THE CITY
AND ARVADA AND THE RIDE
CELEBRATING ITS 25TH BIRTHDAY
THIS YEAR.
SO WE'RE VERY HAPPY ABOUT THAT.
I KNOW SOME OF YOU ARE VERY
FAMILIAR WITH THAT PROGRAM.
THERE ARE TWO HUNDRED DOWNTOWN
ANN ARBOR BUSINESSES THAT
PARTICIPATE IN THAT.
THERE ARE OVER THREE THOUSAND
PASSES IN CIRCULATION RIGHT
NOW.
SO DEFINITELY A WIN WIN WIN AND
AN EXAMPLE OF GREAT
PARTNERSHIPS.
SO IN CLOSING, IF THERE'S EVER
ANYTHING THAT ANY OF US CAN DO
FOR ANY OF YOU, PLEASE DON'T
HESITATE TO GIVE US A CALL
OTHERWISE HAVE A GREAT REST
OF YOUR EVENING AND A PLEASANT
HOLIDAYS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MR.
CARPATI.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL TO THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK AT
PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME ONE
NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES
WE'LL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN
YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND LEAVE
THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
MOLLY KLEINMAN
.
MOLLY KLEINMAN AND ZOOM CAN GO
AHEAD AND SPEAK HIGH AS YOU
JUST MY NAME IS MOLLY CLANDON.
I LIVE IN WARD FOUR JUST OFF
THE PACARD SOUTH OF STADIUM.
I'M GOING TO TALK ABOUT THE
THREE THE SIDEWALKS, THE
CONTRACT AND ABOUT OUR
TRANSPORTATION PRIORITIES MORE
GENERALLY THAN MY TIME ON
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
WE SPENT A LOT OF TIME ON
SIDEWALKS NOW AND ITS
IMPORTANCE FOR KEEPING A
CRITICAL PART OF OUR
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE
FUNCTIONAL.
>> SO I WAS HAPPY TO SEE THIS
ON THE AGENDA UNTIL I REALIZED
THAT IT WAS ONLY FOR CITY
MAINTAIN SIDEWALKS AND SOME
CROSSINGS GIVEN THAT IT IS
ALREADY DECEMBER I AM ASSUMING
THAT NO FURTHER SIDEWALKS, NO
PLANS ARE FORTHCOMING.
IF THAT'S CORRECT, THIS
CONTRACT IS BARELY NIBBLING
AROUND THE EDGES.
>> A VERY LARGE AND SERIOUS
PROBLEM THAT WE HAVE KNOWN
ABOUT FOR YEARS.
IT'S TRUE THAT THE CITY
DETERMINED IT DOES NOT DO A
GOOD JOB OF CLEARING SIDEWALKS
IT'S RESPONSIBLE FOR AND I
ASSUME THIS CONTRACT IS MEANT
TO REMEDY THAT AND THAT'S GREAT
BUT IT STILL LEAVES MOST OF OUR
NEIGHBORS FOUR HUNDRED MILES
OF SIDEWALKS TO THE WHIMS
OF PROPERTY OWNERS EXTREME
LIMITED NATURE OF THIS CONTRACT
AT THE SAME TIME THAT THE CITY
IS TAKING MUCH LARGER STEPS AND
MAKING BIGGER INVESTMENTS IN
STREET SNOW REMOVAL FEELS TO ME
LIKE IT IS INDICATIVE OF A
LARGER PROBLEM.
>> IN SHORT, TOO MANY OF OUR
ROADS ARE UNSAFE FOR EVERYONE
OUTSIDE OF A CAR AND INSTEAD
OF SEEING IT AS AN URGENT
MATTER WE KEEP NIBBLING AROUND
THE EDGES.
>> LAST WEEK TWO DIFFERENT
VULNERABLE ROAD USERS ONE
PEDESTRIAN AND ONE BICYCLIST
WERE SERIOUSLY INJURED BY
DRIVERS ON PACARD.
ONE OF THEM WAS MY NEIGHBOR
LAUREN BUNDANON WHO SUFFERED
TWO BROKEN RIBS WHEN A DRIVER
DARTED ACROSS TRAFFIC WHILE
MAKING A LEFT TURN AND STRUCK
HIM AS HE WAS BIKING IN THE
BIKE.
ONE IS A YEAR-ROUND BIKE RIDER
WHO BIKES HIS DAUGHTER TO DAY
CARE, BIKES HIMSELF TO WORK AND
USES HIS BIKE FOR ERRANDS.
NOW HE IS RECOVERING FROM HIS
INJURIES, HIS HE'S GOING TO
HAVE TO REPAIR OR REPLACE HIS
PRIMARY MEANS OF TRANSPORTATION
NAVIGATING INSURANCE CLAIMS
PROCESSES WHEN THEY NEED
PERMISSION TO TALK ABOUT HIS
CRASH TO PUBLICIZE HIS CRASH
BECAUSE HE ALSO SEES THAT WE
NEED TO DO SO MUCH MORE AND
TREAT THIS PROBLEM WITH URGENCY
TO PEOPLE ON PACARD IN ONE
WEEK.
WE HAVE KNOWN FOR YEARS ABOUT
THE DANGERS OF PACARD.
WE HAVE KNOWN FOR YEARS THAT
PAPPERT THE CARS GO TOO FAST,
THAT IT IS TOO WIDE, THAT WE
NEED BETTER, SAFER
INFRASTRUCTURE AND WE KEEP
DOING NOTHING.
>> IT'S TIME TO TREAT THIS WITH
URGENCY IT DESERVES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS WESTVILLE.
>> HER REQUEST FALL ON ZOOME
CAN GO AHEAD AND SPEAK.
>> HI GOOD EVENING.
I'M TALKING TONIGHT ABOUT
S.A.M. EIGHT STRATEGIC
INITIATIVE TO ADDRESS PARKING
EQUITY IN THE SUMMER TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS
ON THE POSITIVE SIDE I SUPPOSE
IT'S GREAT TO SEE THAT THE CITY
IS GENERATING MORE REVENUE THAN
ANTICIPATED HERE A CITY ON THE
NEGATIVE SIDE THOUGH THE FACT
THAT THERE'S CONSIDERATION TO
POTENTIALLY SPEND AN ADDITIONAL
QUARTER MILLION DOLLARS RELATED
TO PARKING SUBSIDIES IS
CONCERNING ON MULTIPLE LEVELS
IN THE BROADEST SENSE IT
HIGHLIGHTS THE LEVEL DISCONNECT
BETWEEN WHAT THE PUBLIC IS LED
TO BELIEVE.
OUR COUNCIL PRIORITIES AND WHAT
STAFF SEES AS PRIORITIES.
A YEAR AND A HALF AGO I SHARED
AN ARTICLE WITH YOU CALLED THE
PATH TO PROGRESS IN ANN ARBOR.
IF YOU HAVEN'T READ IT, PLEASE
DO IN THAT I EXPRESS MY HOPE
THAT COUNCIL WILL DO THE
CRITICAL WORK OF NAMING WHAT
THE ACTUAL PRIORITIES ARE FOR
THE COMMUNITY DETERMINING WHAT
SUCCESS WOULD LOOK LIKE AND
EVALUATING THE ADMINISTRATOR'S
PROGRESS TOWARD THOSE OUTCOMES
.
YOU PASSED A RESOLUTION ASKING
FOR A PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT
DASHBOARD LAST YEAR WHICH
HINTED AT ARTICULATING GOALS
BUT SADLY THAT TASK DIDN'T
INCLUDE A DEADLINE AND TO MY
KNOWLEDGE THERE STILL ISN'T A
LIST OF PRIORITIES AND
DEADLINES.
THE POINT BEING ON THE ONE HAND
IT SURPRISES ME THAT ONE
OF YOUR TWO KEY EMPLOYEES WOULD
ASK TO ALLOCATE MONEY FOR
PARKING SUBSIDIES.
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND YOU
HAVEN'T PROVIDED STAFF WITH A
DEFINITIVE LIST OF PRIORITIES
EITHER.
>> ON THE ACTUAL SUBJECT
OF THIS EXPENDITURE THOUGH, THE
GOAL OF THIS PARKING EQUITY
REQUEST APPEARS TO CONTEMPLATE
ADDING RATHER THAN REMOVING
PARKING SUBSIDIES.
IF THIS IS AN INCORRECT
ASSUMPTION, I APOLOGIZE IN
ADVANCE.
BUT IF THIS IS CORRECT THIS
SHOULD TRIGGER AN IMMEDIATE
DISCLOSURE THE EXTENT TO WHICH
PARKING IS CURRENTLY SUBSIDIZED
AND BEGIN THE PROCESS
OF REMOVING THOSE SUBSIDIES AND
GIVING ALL EMPLOYEES CASH
INSTEAD.
IF IT IS TRUE THAT THE LOWEST
PAID CITY EMPLOYEES ARE GETTING
THEIR PARKING SUBSIDIZED AT
LEAST THE EQUITABLE SOLUTION
WOULD NOT BE TO LAYER ON MORE
SUBSIDIES IN A RACE TO THE
BOTTOM OR TRY TO MATCH WHAT THE
COUNTY APPEARS TO DO.
BUT HAVE REMOVE THEM FOR THE
HIGHEST PAID EMPLOYEES.
AS I OUTLINED IN MY EMAIL TO
YOU YESTERDAY, THIS IS NOT
ABOUT CAUSING A NET INCREASE
EMPLOYEE COSTS BUT RATHER
SIMPLY CONVERTING THESE
SUBSIDIES INTO CASH PAYMENTS.
THIS IS COMMONLY CALLED PARKING
CASH OUT IF THAT TERM SOUNDS
FAMILIAR IT'S BECAUSE IT'S OUR
TRANSPORTATION PLAN FOR AND
UNDERSTANDING COMMISSION'S WORK
PLAN AS A BEST PRACTICE
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND
MANAGEMENT STRATEGY.
MANY CITIES IN THE ENTIRE STATE
OF CALIFORNIA ALREADY MANDATE
US SO WE SHOULD AT LEAST START
BY PRACTICING WHAT WE PREACH
GIVING EMPLOYEES CASH INSTEAD
OF SUBSIDIZING PARKING
PRIVILEGES IS A PROGRESSIVE
POLICY BECAUSE THE LOWEST PAID
STAFF BENEFIT THE MOST FROM
CASH PAYMENTS IN GENERAL
THEY'RE LESS LIKELY TO OWN CARS
AND DRIVE ALONE IN THE FIRST
PLACE AND IT WORKS FOR RATHER
THAN AGAINST MULTIPLE CITY
GOALS FOR VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED CARBON EMISSIONS ROAD
SAFETY ACT OF TRANSPORTATION
AND TRANSIT USE THIRTY SECONDS
ABOVE ALL AS WE ARE CONTINUING
TO SEE COMMUNITY MEMBERS GET
HURT AND KILLED BY MOTORISTS ON
YOUR STREETS, I WOULD ASK YOU
TO CONSIDER ALLOCATING THESE
FUNDS AND OTHERS TO AN ACTUAL
QUICK BUILD PROGRAM.
STAFF COULD EASILY ACCOMPLISH
RESTRIKING VOLBERDING ROAD
DIETZE CURVE EXTENSIONS RACE
CROSSWALKS AND OTHER LIFESAVING
COUNTERMEASURES WITH THESE
FUNDS IF YOU DIRECT THEM.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JAMES
NICHOLS.
THANK YOU.
I'M NOT HERE.
>> I'M HERE ON BEHALF OF THE
WASHINGTON AREA APARTMENT
ASSOCIATION TO EXPRESS OUR
STRONG OPPOSITION TO THE
PROPOSED ORDINANCE BANNING PRE
TENANCY FEES ASSOCIATED WITH
SIGNING OF A NEW LEASE WHILE WE
SHARE THE GOAL OF ENSURING FAIR
AND EQUITABLE HOUSING
PRACTICES, WE BELIEVE THE
ORDINANCE INTRODUCES SEVERAL
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE THAT
WOULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT BOTH
PROPERTY PROFESSIONALS.
>> ANTENNA'S IN ANN ARBOR.
APPLICATION FEES
COVER UNAVOIDABLE PROCESSING
COSTS SIMILAR TO THE CITY'S
APPROACH TO NONREFUNDABLE
APPLICATION FEES.
PROPERTY PROFESSIONALS RELY ON
THESE FEES TO OFFSET THE COSTS
ASSOCIATED WITH EVALUATING ALL
APPLICATIONS EVEN WHEN AN
APPLICANT IS NOT APPROVED,
THERE ARE SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES
INCURRED IN PROCESSING THEIR
THEIR PAPERWORK WITH THE
INTERIOR BUILDING DEPARTMENT BE
REFUNDING PERMITS AND FEES OR
REVIEW FEES FOR APPLICATIONS
THAT IT REJECTS MANDATING
REFUNDS FOR THESE FEES IGNORES
THE PRACTICAL AND FINANCIAL
REALITIES FACED BY HOUSING
PROVIDERS.
WAIT LISTS PROVIDE CERTAINTY
AND IN A COMPRESSED LEASING
MARKET THE INTRODUCTION OF THE
YELLOW AND TWENTY TWENTY ONE
SIGNIFICANTLY SHORTENED LEASING
PERIOD CREATING UNCERTAINTY AND
HEIGHTENED COMPETITION IN THE
RENTAL MARKET.
WAITLISTS PROVIDE PEACE OF MIND
FOR TENANTS AND LANDLORDS LIKE
OFFERING TENANTS FIRST RIGHT
OF REFUSAL AND REDUCING THE
ANXIETY ASSOCIATED SECURING
HOUSING DURING THIS COMPRESSED
TIME FRAME.
THESE FEES DO NOT ADD TO THE
OVERALL COST OF THE LEASE AND
ARE REFUNDED IN CASES WHERE
TENANTS DO NOT SECURE A UNIT
WITH 95 PERCENT OF OUR MEMBERS
REFUNDING WAITLIST FEES WITHIN
48 HOURS OF SUCH INSTANCES
LIMITING LIMITED HOUSING SUPPLY
IS THE ROOT CAUSE OF THE MARKET
CHALLENGES THE CURRENT HOUSING
SHORTAGE IN ANN HAS INTENSIFIED
COMPETITION FOR RENTAL UNITS,
PARTICULARLY AMONG STUDENTS.
THE STUDENTS DESIRE TO FIND
HOUSING THROUGHOUT THE FALL AND
START OF THE YEAR DRIVES THE
DEMAND FOR TOOLS LIKE WAITLIST
TO PROVIDE STABILITY AND
PREDICTABILITY AS NEW
DEVELOPMENTS COME ONLINE, THE
HOUSING AND HOUSING SUPPLY
INCREASES.
THE NEED FOR WAITLISTS WILL
NATURALLY DIMINISH INSTEAD
OF IMPOSING RESTRICTIVE
MEASURES ON LANDLORDS, EFFORTS
WILL FOCUS EFFORTS SHOULD FOCUS
ON ENCOURAGING THE DEVELOPMENT
OF MORE HOUSING UNITS TO
ADDRESS THE UNDERLYING SHORTAGE
.
RESTRICTING LANDLORD PRACTICES
DOES NOT SOLVE THIS CRISIS.
THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE
REPRESENTS YET ANOTHER
RESTRICTION ON LAW ABIDING
LANDLORDS AND PROPERTY
PROFESSIONALS LIMITING THEIR
ABILITY TO OPERATE EFFECTIVELY
WITHIN AN ALREADY CHALLENGING
MARKET.
THIS IS ALSO CREATING NEW
SECURITY THREATS WHERE STUDENTS
KNOCK ON DOORS OF CURRENT
TENANTS HOPING TO FIND IF
THEY'RE GOING TO RENEW OR NOT
TO GET A JUMP ON THEIR SEARCH.
INSTEAD OF FURTHER HANDCUFFING
LANDLORDS, THE CITY SHOULD
PRIORITIZE POLICIES THAT
FACILITATE THE DEVELOPMENT
OF MORE HOUSING UNITS, WHICH IS
THE ONLY SUSTAINABLE SOLUTION
TO CREATING MORE EQUITABLE AND
AFFORDABLE RENTAL MARKET WITH
THE WHILE THE INTENT OF THIS
ORDINANCE MAY BE WELL-BEING
WHILE MEETING ITS PRACTICAL
IMPLICATIONS WOULD IMPOSE
SIGNIFICANT BURDENS ON PROPERTY
PROFESSIONALS AND TENANTS WHILE
FAILING TO ADDRESS THE ROOT
CAUSE OF ENORMOUS HOUSING
SHORTAGE, WE STRONGLY URGE THE
CITY COUNCIL TO RECONSIDER THIS
PROPOSAL AND FOCUS ON SOLUTIONS
TO EXPAND HOUSING AVAILABILITY
AND AFFORDABILITY WITHOUT
PENALIZING LANDLORDS WHO ARE
STRIVING TO MEET THE
COMMUNITY'S NEEDS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALAN
HABOUR
.
HELLO COUNCIL.
I SPEAK ON THE COMMONS AGAIN
.
I SENT YOU A LETTER I HOPE YOU
GOT IT.
I WISH I COULD SEE THE THE
BASIC DRIFT.
I HAVE A PICTURE THAT TOUCHED
ME A LOT A LITTLE GIRL PARK IS
A GIFT AND THE CITY HAS BEEN
GIVEN A GIFT FROM WHEREVER HOW
THINGS WORKED OUT OF UNBUDGETED
UNACCOUNTED FUNDS ON ALLOCATED
FUNDS AND THE CITY HAS TWO
OBLIGATIONS THAT IT HAS
UNDERTAKEN.
ONE IS TO HAVE ITS CONTRIBUTION
TO THE CONSULTANTS TO THE
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL FOR
CONSULTANTS WHICH IS A FORTY
THOUSAND HOURS THAT WOULD BE
THE CITY'S PART OF A CONTRACT
WITH CONSULTANTS THAT ARE HUGE
WAITING TO BE WRITTEN THAT THE
MONEY ISN'T IN THE BUDGET AND
ALSO THE REVENUE FROM THE
SERVICE WORKING ON THE LIBRARY
LAYING LOT HAVE BEEN ALLOCATED
TO BE RESERVED FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE URBAN
CENTRAL PARK AND CIVIC CENTER
COMMON IN THE CITY CHARTER
WHICH IS YOUR OBLIGATION AND
THAT MONEY HAD NEVER BEEN READ
,LOCATED OR DEALT WITH BECAUSE
THERE HASN'T BEEN THE MONEY AS
I KEEP HEARING.
BUT NOW WE JUST HAVE A GIFT
FROM WHEREVER ABOVE PROVIDENCE
THE FREEDOM TO ACTUALLY TAKE
CARE OF TWO OF THE PROMISES WE
MADE TO FINANCE THE REQUEST FOR
PROPOSALS THAT WOULD COME FROM
THE CITY.
THERE'S MONEY FROM PRIVATE
FUNDS RAISED AND ALSO TO
ALLOCATE THE REVENUE OUT OF THE
PARKING THAT SHOULD BE ALREADY
A PARK TO THE DEVELOPMENT
OF THE PARK AND CIVIC CENTER
COMMONS.
SO THAT'S OBLIGATE ACTIONS
YOU'VE UNDERTAKEN AND IN
HONESTY YOU SHOULD BASICALLY
USE THE MONEY THAT IS FREE FROM
HEAVEN FOR THAT PURPOSE AMONG
THE OTHER PURPOSES THE
PARTICULAR ONE I SAY SHOULD BE
DRAWN DOWN WOULD BE THE
CONTINGENCY FUND OF WHAT MIGHT
HAPPEN FROM MR. TRUMP.
WE MAY HAVE GREAT PROBLEMS WITH
HIM OR NOT BUT WE COULD USE THE
GIFT THAT WE HAVE TO DO THE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT THAT WE
REALLY NEED IN THIS TOWN THAT
SO MANY PEOPLE LIKE AND WANT
EVER SINCE THE OLD COURTHOUSE
COMMONS WAS DESTROYED SO MANY
YEARS AGO THAT'S BEEN A DREAM
IN THE TOWN AND YOU AT THIS
OPPORTUNITY WITH MONEY FROM
HEAVEN SHOULD USE THAT TO MOVE
FORWARD AND GIVE ENCOURAGEMENT
TO THE WORK ON THE COMMONS.
WE HAD A BEAUTIFUL MEETING THE
OTHER DAY OF CELEBRATING THE
GOOD IDEAS I WISH PEOPLE WOULD
PARTICIPATE.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT NEEDS TO
BE DONE TOGETHER.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK
.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ERIC
EUPHONIC
ERIC VINTAGE ZOOM CAN
GO AHEAD.
>> I LIVE IN AN INDIANA
NEIGHBORHOOD OF WARD THREE AND
I'M HERE TO SPEAK IN FAVOR
OF CONSENT AGENDA ITEM THREE
THE ADOPTION OF A CONTRACT TO
HANDLE SNOW REMOVAL FROM CITY
MAINTAIN STRETCHES OF SIDEWALK
AND MIDLAKE CROSSING'S
SIDEWALKS ARE AN IMPORTANT
COMPONENT OF OUR CITY'S
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK AND THEY
NEED TO BE MAINTAINED YEAR
ROUND.
I UNDERSTAND THAT RESPONSIBLE
HAD BEEN PART OF OUR PUT ON OUR
PARKS DEPARTMENT BUT THEY ARE
STRETCHED THIN IN TERMS
OF BUDGET AND PERSONNEL AND
HIGH PRIORITY STILL IN RURAL
AREAS.
SO RELIEVING THEM OF THIS
RESPONSIBILITY IS APPROPRIATE.
I SEE THAT WE'RE USING THE
LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER
METHOD RATHER THAN OUR VOTER
APPROVED BEST VALUE METHOD IN
AWARDING THIS CONTRACT ALTHOUGH
THAT IS UNFORTUNATE, I CAN ONLY
ASSUME THAT THIS IS DUE TO
CONSTRAINTS IMPOSED BY GRANT
MONEY WE'RE USING TO HELP
MAINTAIN THIS TO PAY FOR THIS
CONTRACT.
I TAKE A MOMENT TO EXPAND ON
THE IMPORTANCE OF OUR SIDEWALKS
.
EVERYONE HAS A FUNDAMENTAL
RIGHT TO MOVE THROUGH OUR CITY
SAFELY AND I APPRECIATE THAT
WE'VE ADOPTED THE ALL AGES AND
ABILITIES STANDARD OR A
SIDEWALK NETWORK.
I SEE THAT SOME PEOPLE SOME
PUBLIC SPEAKERS INTEND TO TALK
ABOUT THE SIDEWALK PROJECTS
ALONG BROCKMAN AND PRESLAND.
THOSE ARE IMPORTANT ROUTES TO
SCHOOLS SUCH AS PATTENGALE
ELEMENTARY AND TAPPIN MIDDLE
SCHOOL AND IT'S VITAL THAT WE
PRIORITIZE THE SAFETY OF OUR
CHILDREN PERIOD.
NOW EVEN IF THESE WERE NOT
KIRAZ TO OUR SCHOOLS FILLING IN
THESE SIDEWALK GAPS IS STILL
IMPORTANT.
CHILDREN AND ADULTS SHOULD BE
NOT BE REQUIRED TO WALK IN THE
STREETS AND MIX WITH AUTOMOBILE
TRAFFIC.
PEOPLE WHO USE A WHEELCHAIR
WALKER, CANE OR CRUTCHES SHOULD
NOT BE FORCED TO REVERSE LAWNS
IN ORDER TO STAY OUT OF THE
STREETS AND NO PEDESTRIANS
SHOULD BE REQUIRED TO GO BLOCKS
OUT OF THEIR WAY SO THEY CAN
REMAIN ON SIDEWALKS.
FILLING IN THESE SIDEWALK GAPS
IS LONG OVERDUE AND I FOUND
THAT THE MORALIZING OVER THESE
RECENT MONTHS THAT SO MANY HAVE
PRIORITIZED OTHER ISSUES OVER
THE SAFETY INEQUITY THAT
UNDERLIE THE NEED FOR THESE
SIDEWALK.
>> NOW I AGREE THAT TREES ARE
IMPORTANT BUT NO SINGLE TREE OR
SMALL SET OF TREES IS MORE
IMPORTANT THAN EQUITABLE SAFETY
OF OUR CHILDREN.
IT'S INTERESTING IF NOT IRONIC
THAT MOST HAVE BEEN ADVOCATING
FOR TREES OVER THESE SIDEWALK
IN HOUSES BUILT FROM HARVESTED
TREES AND SOME EVEN USED TO
HAVE LARGE FRONT END OR BACK
LAWNS MOSTLY DEVOID OF TREES.
SO YES, WE ALL ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
NO SMALL SET OF TREES TRUMPS
ALL OTHER NEEDS AND DESIRES AND
SAFETY IS AMONG THE MOST
IMPORTANT RESPONSIBILITIES 30
SECONDS.
I UNDERSTAND THAT CITY STAFF
HAVE MADE IT A PRIORITY TO
PRESERVE AS MANY TREES AS
POSSIBLE WHILE STILL FILLING IN
THE GAPS OF ADEQUATELY SIZED
SIDEWALKS AND I APPRECIATE
THAT.
LET'S REMEMBER ALTHOUGH A FEW
ARE FIGHTING THESE NEW
SIDEWALKS, MANY OF US WHO LIVE
HERE IN ANN UNGRUDGINGLY
MAINTAIN THE SIDEWALKS IN FRONT
OF OUR HOMES FOR THE BENEFIT
OF OUR NEIGHBORS AND OTHERS
BECAUSE WE CARE ABOUT EACH
OTHER AS WELL BE THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX
ALEX LOW AND ZUM GO AHEAD.
HI THIS IS ALEX THOUGH CALLING
IN FROM THREE TONIGHT.
I HAD A COMMENT ON SEVERAL SO
I'LL TRY TO KEEP EACH ONE FREE
TO START ON THREE.
THIS IS A GOOD START BUT IT'S
ALSO THE SORT OF THING THAT
NEEDED TO HAPPEN A DECADE AGO.
SIDEWALKS ARE JUST AS IMPORTANT
AS TRANSPORTATION
INFRASTRUCTURE STREETS YET THE
CITY DOESN'T SEEM TO BE TAKING
THIS VERY SERIOUSLY AND START
SPENDING ONE TO ONE ON
SIDEWALKS AND BIKE LANE SNOW
REMOVAL.
WHAT WE SPEND FOR CARS ON SEE
ONE WHERE I'M GENERALLY IN
FAVOR OF US.
I AM CONCERNED ABOUT THE WAY
THAT THAT THE EXEMPTIONS WORK.
I WOULD RECOMMEND CHANGING THE
EXEMPTION LANGUAGE SPECIFICALLY
AND I ITEM TO TO APPLY TO MOTOR
VEHICLES PARKED IN FRONT OF A
RESIDENCE THAT HAS NO DRIVEWAY.
WELL, RATHER THAN REQUIRING
THAT THE ENTIRE BLOCK HAVE NO
DRIVEWAYS I EMAILED IT COUNCIL
THIS AFTERNOON WITH A COUPLE
OF EXAMPLES OF CASES WHERE THE
CURRENT LANGUAGE COULD CAUSE
PROBLEMS ON SEE TWO AND
STRONGLY IN FAVOR OF THIS AND
OUGHT TO BE HONEST THE PUBLIC
COMMENTS IN OUR POSITION HAVE
ONLY MADE ME MORE IN FAVOR.
LANDLORDS HAVE A RIDICULOUS
AMOUNT OF POWER OVER TENANTS
AND POTENTIAL TENANTS AND WHILE
WE'RE WORKING TO PROVIDE
SUFFICIENT HOUSING WE ALSO NEED
TO PREVENT LANDLORDS FROM
FURTHER TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF INDIVIDUALS.
>> THEY'RE JUST TRYING TO GET A
ROOF OVER THEIR HEADS.
I'M THE LIBRARY LIGHT SINCE
THIS WAS BROUGHT UP IN ANOTHER
PUBLIC COMMENT THE CITY HAS
VERY CLEARLY TAKEN ALL THE
STEPS IT IS REQUIRED TO UNDER
20 EIGHTEENS PROPOSAL THEY AND
THE CITY IS UNDER ABSOLUTELY NO
OBLIGATION TO MAKE EXPENDITURES
TO MEET THE UNSUBSTANTIAL
POLITICAL PROMISES MADE BY THE
SUPPORTERS OF OUR PROPOSAL.
>> NOW MY MAIN POINT I'D LIKE
TO TALK ABOUT TYPE OF GAS WE
CONTINUE TO DO PRECIOUS LITTLE
TO RESOLVE THE ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY NINE MILES OF REMAINING
HAD GAS IN THE CITY IN 2024
WITH ZERO POINT SEVEN MILES
OF SIDEWALK.
>> IF WE CONTINUE AT THAT PACE
WE'LL HAVE ANOTHER TWO
CENTURIES OF THIS PROJECT
REMAINING A PROJECT THAT SHOULD
HAVE BEEN COMPLETED IN FIVE
YEARS BUT IS ALREADY GONE.
>> THIRTY SECONDS SIDEWALKS ARE
CLEAR.
SAFETY MECHANISM WE NEED
SIDEWALKS FOR SAFETY SIDEWALKS,
GRAVEL ALTERNATIVES TO DRIVING
SO THERE ARE CLEAR ENVIRONMENTS
THAT WE NEED SIDEWALKS FOR THE
ENVIRONMENT.
WE HAVE MECHANISMS CURRENTLY BY
WHICH BAD FAITH ACTORS CAN
DELAY AND DENY THIS VITAL CITY
SERVICE TO OTHERS AND THEY
OFTEN DO SO WITH FAUX
ENVIRONMENTALIST TIME.
BUT IN THE END THEIR CONCERNS
ARE SURE TO HAVE LESS DEPTH
THAN THE MUD PUDDLES THERE
WHICH WE HAVE TO TRUDGE.
THANK YOU TO THAT VERY LACK
OF THAT LIVE ON THE PROSPECT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HAVING
JUST GETACHEW ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ
ON ZOOM.
>> GO AHEAD AND SPEAK.
WELL HELLO THIS IS ADAM
MISCAVIGE IN THE FOURTH WARD.
I'M CALLING TONIGHT TO SPEAK
ABOUT K3 CONTRACT TO PERFORM
SIDEWALK SNOW REMOVAL FOR
SCATTERED SIDEWALKS AND MID
BLOCK CROSSINGS.
I WELCOME THIS BUT I DON'T
THINK IT GOES FAR ENOUGH BACK
IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO I SPOKE TO
THIS BODY ABOUT DC THREE THE
RESOLUTION TO IMPROVE THE
SAFETY AND ACCESSIBILITY
OF SIDEWALKS IN THE WINTER AND
TOLD ME THAT WE NEED TO
CONSIDER OUR SIDEWALKS TO BE
PART OF OUR TRANSPORTATION
INFRASTRUCTURE
AND CLEAR THEM
WITH AT LEAST THE SAME PRIORITY
AS OUR STREETS.
I URGE YOU TO GET A REAL
COMPREHENSIVE SIDEWALK SNOW
REMOVAL PROGRAM IN PLACE AS
SOON AS POSSIBLE SO THAT OUR
SIDEWALKS ARE SAFE AND
ACCESSIBLE TRANSPORTATION
NETWORK YEAR AROUND 6:00 WILL
BE BEFORE YOU TONIGHT IS ONE
TINY STEP TOWARD THIS BUT IT
PALES AGAINST WHAT WE DO FOR
STREETS AS A CITY WE VOTED FOR
THE IMPORTANCE OF SIDEWALKS
TIME AND TIME AGAIN RECOGNIZING
THEM AS AN ESSENTIAL AND BASIC
PART OF OUR PUBLIC
INFRASTRUCTURE.
WE DEVOTED MILLIONS TO FIX
SIDEWALKS WHEN THEY CRUMBLE AND
WE HAVE VOTED MILEAGES TO FILL
SIDEWALK GAPS AND YET WE HAVE
NOT TAKEN THE STEPS NEEDED TO
ENSURE THAT THESE SIDEWALKS ARE
CLEARED IN THE WINTER THE CITY
DOES AN ADEQUATE JOB CLEARING
THE STREETS AND OUR PRIORITY TO
PUT DOWN ROOTS SOON AFTER SNOW
EVENTS AND SEE ONE ALSO ON YOUR
AGENDA TONIGHT GIVES US A TOOL
TO DO A BETTER JOB.
BUT WE HAVE DONE VERY LITTLE TO
ENSURE THAT PEDESTRIANS HAVE
SAFE ACCESSIBLE SIDEWALKS
WHEREVER THEY NEED TO GO YEAR
ROUND.
HERE'S WHAT I PROPOSE PROACTIVE
ENFORCEMENT INSTEAD OF THE
CURRENT COMPLAINT DRIVEN
ENFORCEMENT WHERE COMMUNITY
STANDARDS RESPONSE TO TO
POSSIBLY COMPLAINTS POSSIBLY
DAYS LATER WE SHOULD THE
COMMUNITY STANDARDS OUT TO
INSPECT SIDEWALKS.
ONE PRIORITY ONE INCH TO
PLOWING ROUTES AFTER SNOW
EVENTS AND ISSUE NOTICES AND
CITATIONS AS NECESSARY TO
ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH THEIR
ORDINANCES.
FURTHERMORE, OUR ORDINANCE
ENABLES THE CITY TO CLEAR SNOW
AND BUILD PROPERTY OWNERS FOR
THE EXPENSE.
I SENT AN EMAIL TO COUNCIL
ASKING HOW OFTEN THIS HAPPENS.
COUNCIL MEMBER ECKMANN REPLIED
THAT WHEN SHE ASKED A SIMILAR
QUESTION SHE WAS TOLD FOR 2020
FOR THE CITY DID NOT CONTRACT
TO SHOVEL ANYONE SNOW BUT DID
SO ON ONE OCCASION IN 2023.
I KNOW I FAILED.
I FAILED SEE QUICK FIX TICKETS
FOR BUSINESSES ALONG THE
STADIUM CORRIDOR AFTER
STUMBLING OVER ICY SNOW DRIFTS
ACROSS THE SIDEWALKS AND THOSE
DRIFTS WERE STILL THERE A WEEK
LATER.
THAT IS UNACCEPTABLE.
SOMETHING IS NOT WORKING IF
PROPERTY OWNERS CAN'T BE
BOTHERED THE CITY SHOULD DO IT
FOR THEM AND BUILD THEM FOR IT
SINCE THEY HAVE TIME.
I NOTICED A FEW PEOPLE ON THE
AGENDA SPEAKING ABOUT THE
BRACKMAN SIDEWALK PROJECT.
IT IS NOTABLE THAT ACCORDING TO
THE MOST RECENT UPDATE STAFF
HAS COME UP WITH AT LEAST ONE
OPTION IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY THAT PRESERVES 30
SECONDS.
>> THIS IS WONDERFUL NEWS WHICH
ARE AN IMPORTANT PART OF OUR
CITY AND I'M GLAD THAT WE WILL
BE ABLE TO SAVE THEM AND STILL
HAVE SIDEWALKS INSTALLED.
I HOPE THE PEOPLE SPEAKING
TONIGHT ARE NOT TRYING TO MOVE
THE GOALPOSTS WITH THE SIDEWALK
AT MILITARY VOTERS MADE IT
CLEAR THAT FILLING ALL OF OUR
SIDEWALK GAPS IS IMPORTANT TO
US.
WE NEED A COMPLETE NETWORK
OF SIDEWALKS ON BOTH SIDES
OF EVERY STREET THROUGHOUT THE
CITY AND WE SHOULD NOT ALLOW A
HANDFUL OF ADJACENT PROPERTY
OWNERS TO VETO OUR CITY'S
STATED PRIORITIES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KAREN
SHELTON
.
>> OK.
HI, I'M KAREN TUMULTY.
I MOVED TO ANN ARBOR WHEN I WAS
13 YEARS OLD.
>> THAT'S JUST SHY OF 60 YEARS
AGO AND I'VE LIVED ON BRACKMAN
BOULEVARD FOR HALF THOSE YEARS
30 YEARS.
I LIVE ON THE STRIP OF BRACKMAN
BOULEVARD BETWEEN PACARD AND
FAGONE AND WE ARE IDENTIFIED AS
A SIDEWALK GAP ELIMINATION
STRETCH.
I'M HERE TONIGHT OR ACTUALLY I
THINK I SHOULD SAY WE ARE HERE
TONIGHT BECAUSE I THINK THIS
ALMOST ENTIRE AUDIENCE IS PART
OF OUR SUPPORT GROUP.
WE'RE HERE TONIGHT TO ASK YOUR
HELP BEFORE I GET INTO THAT, I
DO WANT TO SAY TWO THINGS RIGHT
UP FRONT.
THE FIRST IS WE'RE SUPPORTIVE
OF SIDEWALKS COMING TO
BROCKMANN BOULEVARD.
WE ARE NOT HERE TO TRY TO TALK
YOU OUT OF PUTTING SIDEWALKS
IN.
THE SECOND THING IS I'D LIKE TO
THANK OUR TWO COUNCIL REPS.
I'D LIKE TO THANK THE MAYOR AND
I'D LIKE TO THANK THE CITY
ENGINEERS WHO HAVE MET WITH US
.
LISTEN TO US TALK TO US GIVEN
US SOME SUGGESTIONS AND THAT'S
BEEN HELPFUL.
SO WHY DO WE NEED YOUR HELP?
>> THERE IS A TENTATIVE PLAN
OUT AND WE'RE SO PLEASED THE
PLAN IS HOPEFULLY SAVING ALL
OF OUR TREES.
AND SO YOU THINK WE'D SMILE AND
GO HOME?
UNFORTUNATELY WE HAVE TWO
CONCERNS ABOUT THAT PLAN EVEN
THOUGH WE APPRECIATE ALL THE
EFFORT THE ENGINEERS HAVE MADE
.
THE FIRST CONCERN IS THAT FOUR
OF OUR NEIGHBORS WOULD LOSE
MOST OF THEIR FRONT YARDS BUT
PERHAPS MORE IMPORTANTLY, THE
SECOND CONCERN IS THAT IT'S OUR
UNDERSTANDING FROM ALL THE
LEARNING WE'VE DONE THAT THAT
WOULD PUT THE SIDEWALKS
DIRECTLY OVER THE CRITICAL ROOT
ZONE OF OUR TREES.
THAT'S A SLOW DEATH SENTENCE
FOR A TREE.
IN FACT, IF THE CITY CODE THE
DEVELOPMENT CODE FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR WARNS AGAINST THAT
PROCESS.
SO WE'RE HERE TO LOOKING FOR
MAYBE A WIN WIN SITUATION, A
HOLISTIC APPROACH TO THIS.
WE'RE ASKING FOR YOU TO
CONSIDER TRAFFIC CALMING AT THE
SAME TIME AS YOU CONSIDER A
SIDEWALK INSTALLATION.
BROOKWOOD BRACKMAN COULD USE
SOME TRAFFIC CALMING OR CUT
THROUGH STREET FROM PACKARD TO
STADIUM THAT WILL ONLY GET
BUSIER AS THE PACKARD CORRIDOR
IS FURTHER DEVELOPED AND WE
BELIEVE THE SIDEWALKS CAN BE
PUT ON THE STREET SIDE OF THE
TREES RATHER THAN ON THE HOUSE
SIDE OF THE TREES IF THAT MAKES
SENSE HERE THE TREES HERE'S MY
HOUSE.
TYPICALLY SIDEWALKS GO IN
BETWEEN THOSE TWO WE'RE ASKING
FOR THE SIDEWALKS TO OUT INTO
THE STREET A LITTLE BIT
ACCOMPLISHING TWO THINGS.
ONE IS NARROWING BRACKMAN
BOULEVARD WHICH IS A PRETTY
EFFECTIVE TRAFFIC CALMING
TECHNIQUE AND TO SAVING OUR
CRITICAL ROOT ZONES OF OUR
TREES.
WE UNDERSTAND THIS IS MORE
EXPENSIVE TO FACILITATE THIS WE
ARE CLOSE TO TURNING IN OUR
PETITION AND OUR REQUEST FOR
TRAFFIC CALMING ASSESSMENT
HOPING THAT THAT CAN ACCESS
SOME OTHER FUNDS AND THAT OUR
SIDEWALK CAN BE PLANNED AT THE
SAME TIME AS THE TRAFFIC
CALMING.
THIS WOULD REQUIRE DEPARTMENTS
TO WORK TOGETHER.
IT WOULD REQUIRE BUDGETS IS AT
THE END.
>> OH MY GOSH IT WOULD REQUIRE
THE BUDGETS TO SORT OF MERGE
TOGETHER SO WE REALLY DO ASK
FOR YOUR HELP IN FACILITATING
THIS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS INVESTING
.
HI, I'M LINDA BAFFSKY.
I'M ALSO HERE WITH THE SABAYON
ARBITRAGES COALITION RETIRED
AND OUR PUBLIC SCHOOL TEACHER.
MOST OF MY YEARS I'VE PLAYED
MIDDLE SCHOOL WHAT BEGAN AS A
LOCAL CONCERN ON BROCKMANN
BOULEVARD HAS MORPHED INTO A
MUCH BROADER CAMPAIGN THAT'S
FINDING SUPPORT THROUGHOUT OUR
CITY.
THIS EASILY COULD HAVE BEEN A
PUSH IF YOU KNOW CHANGE
DECISIONS ON ONE LITTLE BLOCK
KIND OF NOT NOT ON MY STREET
EARLY BUT INSTEAD A LARGE
NUMBER OF NEIGHBORS CAME
TOGETHER, TALKED AND LISTENED
TO EACH OTHER AND NOW WE'VE
GROWN INTO A GROUP
OF INAUGURATES WHO WANT TO
FIGHT FOR SIDEWALKS.
>> YES, FIGHT FOR SIDEWALKS BUT
ALSO WANT TO ENCOURAGE AND HELP
OUR CITY COMPLETE THESE
PROJECTS IN THE MOST RESPONSIVE
WAY POSSIBLE.
WE TRULY BELIEVE THAT SIDEWALKS
WHICH EXPAND ACCESS AND SAFETY
FOR EVERYONE CAN COEXIST WITH
TRAFFIC CALMING MEASURES AND
TREE PRESERVATION.
>> RIGHT NOW IT SEEMS LIKE THE
CITY OPERATES WITH SEPARATE
SILOS FOR EACH ONE FOR SIDEWALK
GAP INSTALLATION ONE FOR
TRAFFIC CALMING, ONE FOR TREE
INITIATIVES AND I HAD ONE MORE
ROAD RESURFACING JUST A FEW
YEARS AGO BROCKMANN WAS RESERVA
A LENGTHY AND SURELY COSTLY
PROJECT MYSELF WOULD HAVE BEEN
IF THAT PROJECT HAD BEEN IN
CONJUNCTION WITH ADDING THOSE
SIDEWALKS PERHAPS EVEN ONES
THAT ARE ABOVE THE CURB AND
TRAFFIC CALMING MEASURES SUCH
AS OUTS OR ROAD NARROWING THAT
WOULD OCCUR WITH ST. ADJACENT
SIDEWALKS A PROJECT LIKE THAT
WOULD HAVE IMPROVED SAFETY ON
THE BLOCK AND COMPLIED WITH IN
OUR CLIMATE GOALS BY PROTECTING
LARGE TREES AND BY
ACCOMPLISHING MULTIPLE GOALS AT
ONCE.
IT COULD HAVE BEEN BUDGET
FRIENDLY TOO.
IF YOU ARE FAMILIAR WITH
BROCKMAN, WHAT'S COOL ABOUT IT
IS THAT IT'S NOT A RICH RETREAT
.
IT HAS A HANDFUL OF HOUSES
UNDER A THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
AND SOME LARGER FAMILY HOMES.
PEOPLE COME FROM ALL WALKS
OF LIFE YOUNG AND OLD WITH KIDS
SINGLE RETIRED YOU NAME IT.
>> WE BELIEVE BROCKMANN CAN BE
ANN ARBOR SHOWCASE STREET
OF SIDEWALK INSTALLATION CAN BE
DONE RIGHT WITH A STICK
APPROACH THAT INTEGRATES THOSE
DIFFERENT SILOS PROVIDING
NEIGHBORHOODS WITH SIDEWALKS,
MAYBE EVEN SHADY SIDEWALKS AND
SAFETY ALL WHILE MAINTAINING
WHAT MAKES THAT ARBETER CITY
THIS MODERN STREET CAN BE ONE
THAT OTHER CITIES LIKE OURS
LOOK TO FOR INSPIRATION.
HOW DO WE JUGGLE SAFETY
CONCERNS AND BUDGET CONCERNS
AND CLIMATE CONCERNS?
WE CAN SHOW THEM HOW OUR STREET
AND OUR CITY CAN BE THE LEADER
IN THIS IF NOT US.
>> OH LET'S WALK THE TALK.
YOU HAVE A LARGE CONTINGENT
HERE WHO'S WILLING TO HELP IN
THE LEAD THE WAY.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DAVID
.
>> GOOD EVENING MAYOR.
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS AND FELLOW
CITIZENS.
MY NAME IS DAVE KINNAIRD AND I
WAS BORN AND RAISED ANN ARBOR.
I'VE BEEN A HOMEOWNER ON
BROCKLIN BOULEVARD FOR THIRTY
FIVE YEARS AND NOW I AM A
MEMBER OF SAVE ANN ARBOR TREES
.
I WANT TO POINT OUT TWO FACTS
REGARDING THE SIDEWALK GAP
ELIMINATE PROJECT IN ITS EFFECT
ON BRACKMAN BOULEVARD.
FIRST BEAUTIFUL MATURE TREES
AND NEW SIDEWALKS CAN COEXIST.
SECOND FROM FEEDBACK WE HAVE
RECEIVED THIS PROJECT CAN BE
COMPLETED WITHOUT REMOVING
TREES.
THAT'S GREAT NEWS .
AS WE ALL KNOW TREES PROVIDE
ESSENTIAL QUALITIES THAT
IMPROVE OUR CITY ENVIRONMENT.
WE NEED TREES TO COOL OUR
SURROUNDINGS BY PROVIDING
NEEDED SHADE TO PREVENT SOIL
EROSION TO BEAUTIFY OUR CITY
THAT MANY VISITORS COMMENT ON.
AFTER ALL, WE ARE TREE TOWN TO
IMPROVE OUR MENTAL HEALTH AND
MOST IMPORTANTLY
COMBAT CLIMATE
CHANGE AND KEEP OUR AIR CLEAN
BY ABSORBING CARBON DIOXIDE AND
PRODUCING OXYGEN AS A USDA
FOREST SERVICE SAYS, TREES
PARTICULARLY MATURE TREES ARE
CLIMATE CHANGE CARBON STORAGE
HEROES.
MOREOVER, SAVING TREES ALIGNS
PERFECTLY WITH THE CITY'S
CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN BY 2030.
THEREFORE WE WANT TO CHALLENGE
THE CITY TO INSTALL THESE NEW
SIDEWALKS BETWEEN THE TREES IN
THE STREET.
MAYBE THIS INSTALLATION NEEDS
TO BE COUPLED WITH TRAFFIC
CALMING OR A THOUGHTFUL STREET
MODIFY AND SOME OF THE AFFECTED
HOMES ON BROCKMANN HAVE VERY
SMALL FRONT YARDS.
WE HOPE THAT THE CITY DOES NOT
PLAN ON PLACING SIDEWALKS
BETWEEN THE TREES AND THE HOMES
.
THAT PLACEMENT WOULD BE TOO
CLOSE TO THE FRONT OF THE HOMES
AND FRINGING ON A HOMEOWNER'S
PRIVACY AND ROBBING THEM
OF THEIR OVERALL HOME VALUE.
>> TO SUMMARIZE, WE ASK THAT A
DIFFERENT CITY DEPARTMENTS
ENGINEERING, FORESTRY
SUSTAINABILITY SIDEWALK AND
TRAFFIC CALMING WORK TOGETHER
TO CREATE AN INNOVATIVE PLAN TO
SAVE OUR TREES AND TREE TOWN
AND INSTALL SIDEWALKS THAT MEET
THE NEEDS OF HOMEOWNERS AND
RESIDENTS AS WELL AS THE CITY'S
CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
NEXT SPEAKER IS CHARLES
.
>> HI THERE.
THANK YOU FOR LETTING ME SPEAK
TONIGHT.
IT'S AN HONOR TO SPEAK TO
COUNSEL.
I PUT THIS ON YOUR DESK BEFORE
I WAS PLANNING ON NOT PASSING
THIS BUT NOW AFTER I HEAR SOME
OF THESE FOLKS IN THEIR KIND
OF ACTIVITY GESTAPO AS I CALL
IT, I REALLY FEEL LIKE GOING
DOOR TO DOOR WITH THIS.
HERE'S THE BEAUTIFUL DAY BUT
HERE'S THE LOGS ON THE GROUND
DEAD .
HERE'S THE CONCRETE THAT JUST
EXTENDS ON AS FAR AS I CAN SEE
THE CITIZENS OF AND I SAW THIS
THEY WOULD NOT VOTE FOR ANY
FURTHER SIDEWALK VILLAGE.
THIS IS THIS IS THE REAL WORLD.
I DIDN'T MAKE THIS UP.
I DIDN'T I DON'T KNOW HOW TO
PHOTOSHOP SOMETHING LIKE THAT
ON WALK EVERY DAY I WALK WITH
EITHER FOUR OR SIX TIMES PAST
THESE TREES.
THAT'S HOW I GOT INVOLVED.
I LOOKED AT THESE TREES AND I
THOUGHT THESE TREES ARE SAFE.
WE'RE LIKE WE LIVE IN ANN
ARBOR.
>> AND THEN I REALIZED WOW.
OH NO THEY'RE NOT.
>> AND WHEN I WALK PAST AND IT
WAS STARTED WHEN I WAS WALKING
ALONG AND I WATCHED THEM TOP
THIS GIANT SYCAMORE, THEY CUT
OFF THE CAMERA, RUSHED FORWARD
AND TRIED TO STOP BUT THEY JUST
CUT THE TOP OFF OF THIS TREE
AND IT FREAKED ME RIGHT OUT AND
EVERY DAY I WALK PAST THIS AND
I SAY NEVER AGAIN WILL THIS
HAPPEN.
AND THE TREE SAYS TO ME, YOU
KNOW, PROVE IT.
CHUCK.
>> ARE YOU WORTH ANYTHING?
I KNOW I BELIEVE IN OUR MAYOR
AND IF HE BELIEVES IN THE REST
OF YOU GUYS, YOU MUST BE ALL
RIGHT.
BUT THIS AND I KNOW THAT YOUR
REAL GOALS ARE THE SAME AS OURS
AND IF YOU GO DOWN THAT STREET
YOU WOULD REALIZE NO, WE CAN'T
DOWN ANY OF THESE TREES.
>> I SUPPORT HIS COUNCIL.
I KNOW THAT WHAT YOU SEE IN
THESE PHOTOS IS NOT WHAT YOU
WANT TO SEE.
>> I WANT TO MAKE TWO POINTS.
YOU ONLY NEED A NEW SIDEWALK ON
ONE SIDE TO ACCOMPLISH ANY
OF THE STATED OBJECTIVES THAT
ANYONE HAS GIVEN.
YOU ONLY NEED THE SIDEWALK ON
ONE SIDE YOU CAN WALK DOWN.
>> NO NEED TO DESTROY TWO
SIDES.
>> THE ONLY DENHA SIDEWALK ON
ONE SIDE EXCEPT FOR SOMEBODY
WHO'S REALLY COMPULSIVE AND THE
OTHER ONE IS THERE'S NO NEED
FOR 60 INCH WIDE SIDEWALKS
RIGHT THERE ON BRACKMAN THEY
USE FORTY EIGHT INCH SIDEWALKS
RIGHT DOWN BY THE DRY CLEANERS.
YOU COULD YOU'RE ALREADY USING
INCH SIDEWALKS AND IT CAN GO
DOWN TO THIRTY SIX INCH
SIDEWALKS FOR HANDICAPPED.
WE DON'T NEED FORTY SO I'M GLAD
YOU'RE GOING TO DO THE RIGHT
THING ON BRACKMAN BUT I AFTER
HEARING THESE FOLKS TALK ABOUT
SIDEWALKS ON THE ZOOME I WANT
TO EMPHASIZE THAT WE'RE STILL
BUILDING UP THE LORAX CREW IN
THE LORAX WHO IS BUILDING UP
EQUI AND PEOPLE AND AND
THEY SAY CHILDREN THEY'RE GOING
TO BRING CHILDREN INTO THIS
BEAUTIFUL CUTTING DOWN TREES ON
THE BASIS OF CHILDREN SAFETY.
I USED TO READ THE LORAX TO
FIVE YEAR OLDS.
I TAUGHT FOR THIRTY YEARS AND
THEY WERE READY TO GO TO WAR
AFTER I GOT DONE READING THE
LORAX.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
WILLIAMSBURG.
>> A MOMENT PLEASE.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS BILL STARK LIKE I
RESIDE ON BROCKMANN BOULEVARD
AND I'M HERE TO TALK ABOUT THE
SIDEWALK GAP ELIMINATION
PROGRAM.
MY COLLEAGUES BEFORE ME HAVE
SPOKEN VERY ELOQUENTLY AND
THEY'VE HIT JUST ABOUT EVERY
ITEM I HAVE ON MY SPEECH HERE.
SO MAYBE THAT FREES ME UP TO
TALK ABOUT SOME OTHER THINGS.
I DID BRING SOME VISUAL AIDS
WITH ME.
YOU SHOULD ALL HAVE A COPY
OF THIS IN FRONT OF YOU.
THE FIRST THING I WOULD
CERTAINLY LIKE TO POINT OUT TO
YOU THE THE TOP PAGE IS A
PICTURE OF BROCKMANN BOULEVARD
.
WE THINK IT'S THE MOST
BEAUTIFUL STREET IN ANN ARBOR
AND I HOPE AFTER YOU LOOK AT
THE PICTURE THAT YOU WOULD
AGREE WITH US AS WELL.
IT'S BEAUTY LIKE THIS THAT
BRINGS OUT ALL OF OUR FRIENDS,
OUR NEIGHBORS HERE TO FIGHT TO
PRESERVE THE QUALITY OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND JUST THE
BEAUTIFUL ENVIRONMENT THAT'S
THERE WHEN SCANSOURCE IS WHEN
YOU TAKE A LOOK AT THE SECOND
PAGE THAT I'VE GIVEN YOU THERE
AND THAT IS A SIDEWALK MAP
ELIMINATION PROJECT THAT THE
CITY COMPLETED TWO YEARS AGO, I
DON'T SEE ANY REASON TO MENTION
THE NAME OF THE STREET ALTHOUGH
YOU CAN ALL SEE IT THERE YOU
HAVE BEFORE AND AFTER PICTURES
AND I GUESS THE REASON WHY
WE'RE ALL HERE IS THIS WE DON'T
WANT THIS BEAUTIFUL PICTURE
OF BROCKMANN BOULEVARD TO BE
THE BEFORE PICTURE NEXT YEAR
WHEN SOMEBODY COMES HERE SAYING
THAT THEY'RE A LITTLE BIT
CONCERNED ABOUT SIDEWALK GAP
ELIMINATION COMING TO THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I DO WANT TO REITERATE WHAT
KAREN SAID AND LINDA SAID WE
ARE NOT OPPOSED TO SIDEWALKS.
WE WELCOME SIDEWALKS.
WE HAVE INDIVIDUALS ON OUR
BLOCK WITH SMALL CHILDREN.
THEY SAY WE WANT THE SIDEWALKS
AND I'VE LEARNED IN LIFE YOU
DON'T ARGUE WITH PEOPLE WITH
SMALL CHILDREN BUT YOU CAN PUT
SIDEWALKS IN THE WAY THAT STILL
MAINTAINS THE INTEGRITY AND THE
BEAUTY OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
AND WHEN I TAKE A LOOK AT THIS
BEFORE AND AFTER PICTURE, I
HATE TO SAY IT BUT I JUST DON'T
THINK THAT THE CITY DID A VERY
GOOD JOB THERE.
NOW WE HAVE BEEN TOLD WE'VE
HEARD THIS FROM THE MAYOR AND I
WANT TO THANK THE MAYOR FOR
MEETING WITH US AND WE'VE ALSO
HEARD IT FROM OUR COUNCIL
PEOPLE THAT THERE ARE PROPOSALS
THAT THE ENGINEERS HAVE PUT
TOGETHER THAT MAINTAIN THE
TREES AND WE THINK THAT THAT'S
WONDERFUL BUT WE DON'T THINK
THAT THAT'S GOOD ENOUGH BECAUSE
THE PLAN IS CALLING FOR THE THE
SIDEWALKS TO GO IN THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY WHICH IS GOING UP
ON PEOPLE'S FRONT LAWNS.
AND IF YOU GO AHEAD AND YOU
ACTUALLY CHECK THE CITY CODE ,
IT'S IN VIOLATION OF CITY
CODE .
I'M TALKING ABOUT THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE THAT TALKS
ABOUT LANDMARK TREES.
THERE IS NO ROOM TO PUT
SIDEWALKS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT
AWAY WITHOUT IMPACTING THE
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE OF THESE
TREES.
SO AGAIN, AS KAREN ARTICULATED
BEFORE, WE'RE HOPING FOR IS
THAT YOU CAN BUILD THAT YOU CAN
BUILD THE SIDEWALKS OUT INTO
THE STREET BROCKMAN BOULEVARD
IT'S 30 FEET WIDE.
>> THAT'S A VERY WIDE STREET.
THERE IS CERTAINLY ROOM TO DO
IT THERE.
>> SO I'VE GOT THIRTY SECONDS
LEFT NOW I'M GOING TO OH I'M
WELL DONE THAT I'M OK.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BARTON
BARTON
.
>> SEE NO FURTHER PUBLIC
COMMENT HIS CLOTHES ARE THERE
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
COUNCIL CAST MEMBER WATSON
MR.
BAKER ALTHOUGH THERE IS
ALTHOUGH THIS ISN'T A CITY PARK
PROJECT WARD TO RESIDENTS AND
ESPECIALLY RESIDENT IN THE
THURSTON NEIGHBORHOOD MAY BE
INTERESTED TO VIRTUAL INFO
SESSIONS HOSTED BY APS THIS
WEEK THE AP'S CAPITAL PROGRAM
WILL BE HOSTING VIRTUAL OFFICE
HOURS TO ANSWER QUESTIONS ABOUT
PLANS FOR THURSTON ELEMENTARY
ON TUESDAY DECEMBER 17TH I.E.
TOMORROW FROM SEVEN P.M. TO
EIGHT THIRTY P.M. AND WEDNESDAY
DECEMBER 18TH FROM TWELVE TO
ONE THIRTY PM SIGN UP AT TWO
SCHOOLS BOND DOG THROUGH A LINK
AT THE TOP OF THE PAGE AND AAPS
STATES SPACE WILL BE LIMITED TO
ALLOW FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS TO
ASK QUESTIONS.
BUT THE AP'S CAPITAL PROGRAM
WILL CONSIDER ADDITIONAL OFFICE
HOURS SESSIONS AS NEEDED OR
DENHA.
>> THANK YOU MARA.
WELL I KNOW A LOT OF FOLKS ARE
FILTERING OUT AT THIS POINT.
I JUST WANTED TO THANK
EVERYBODY FOR COMING AND
SPEAKING ABOUT SIDEWALKS.
I'M BROCKMANN AND ELSEWHERE IN
THE CITY I KNOW WE'VE HAD A
NUMBER OF CONVERSATIONS LEADING
UP TO THIS AND I KNOW THAT OUR
OUR STAFF ARE WORKING
DILIGENTLY TO TO FIND A PLAN TO
TO MOVE US FORWARD SO THAT WE
CAN ACCOMPLISH SIDEWALKS WHILE
ALSO PRESERVING THE BEAUTIFUL
TREE CANOPY THAT EXISTS ON
BRACKMAN AND SO I LOOK FORWARD
TO TO KIND OF CONTINUING TO SEE
THAT THIS PROCESS PLAYS OUT.
>> I DID WANT TO GIVE AN
UPDATE.
I THINK MOST FOLKS WHO ARE HERE
ARE AWARE OF THIS.
WE'VE SPOKEN ABOUT IT BEFORE
BUT THE NEXT
ANTICIPATED
INFORMATION SESSION WITH THE
CITY WOULD COME IN EARLY TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE AT WHICH I BELIEVE
WE MIGHT HAVE SOME TENTATIVE
PLANS FOR FOLKS TO REACT TO AND
AND TO DISCUSS FURTHER.
AND THEN THE EARLIEST THAT THIS
PROJECT WOULD ACTUALLY MOVE
FORWARD WOULD BE THE CALENDAR
OR TWENTY TWENTY SIX.
AND SO THERE'S STILL SOME TIME
AND I KNOW THAT RESIDENTS ARE
ADVOCATING FOR A SOLUTION THAT
POTENTIALLY ALSO INCLUDES
TRAFFIC CALMING AS SOMEBODY WHO
PARTICIPATED IN THE WALK
THROUGH WITH THE CITY AT A TIME
WHEN WE WERE WALKING IN THE
STREET BECAUSE THERE ARE
CURRENTLY SIDEWALKS THERE THERE
IS DEFINITELY A SIGNIFICANT
NEED FOR TRAFFIC CALMING AS
WELL.
AND SO IF THERE IS A PATH
FORWARD THAT ALLOWS FOR US TO
DO BOTH, I HOPE THAT THAT IS
EXPLORED.
>> THANKS COUNCIL RAKOWSKI.
YOU KNOW, MY WARD MIGHT JUST
ELOQUENTLY STATED REALLY
EVERYTHING THAT I WAS GOING TO
SAY.
I JUST WANT TO THANK YOU ALL
FOR COMING AGAIN TONIGHT.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THAT YOU
GUYS EMPHASIZED THAT YOU ALSO
PRIORITIZE ACCESSIBILITY AND
YOU BELIEVE IN SIDEWALKS BUT
YOU WANT IT TO BE DONE IN A WAY
THAT ALSO VALUES AND UPHOLDS
OUR GOALS WITH THE ENVIRONMENT
.
SO I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR THAT
AND AS COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
SAID, WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE
TO WORK WITH THE CITY ENGINEERS
AND SEE WHAT WE CAN WORK ON
TOGETHER.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO FUTURE
ENGAGEMENT.
THANKS AGAIN FOR COMING
COUNCILMAN MALIK.
HELLO EVERYBODY.
AS A RUNNER WHO RUNS ACROSS OUR
BEAUTIFUL CITY YEAR ROUND PUT
ME DOWN IN FAVOR OF SHADED AND
SNOW FREE SIDEWALKS.
I LOOK FORWARD TO WORKING WITH
MY COUNCIL COLLEAGUES, CITY
STAFF AND MEMBERS THE PUBLIC TO
ACHIEVE THESE OUTCOMES.
>> FINALLY, I'D LIKE TO
ANNOUNCE THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON AND I WILL BE HOSTING A
COFFEE HOUR IN THE NEW YEAR.
WE ARE PLANNING FOR SUNDAY,
JANUARY 12 FROM THREE TO FOUR
P.M. IN WARD TWO WITH A
SPECIFIC LOCATION YET TO BE
DETERMINED.
>> AND IN THE MEANTIME HAPPY
HOLIDAYS AND HAPPY NEW YEAR.
>> THANK YOU COUNCILOR DISH.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY TO THE
HANDFUL OF PEOPLE WHO REMAIN
HERE THAT WE HAD A REALLY
WONDERFUL EVENING SATURDAY
NIGHT TO CELEBRATE THE END
OF THE BICENTENNIAL, THE YEAR
LONG BICENTENNIAL
OF CELEBRATION AND THERE WAS A
GREAT THEATER PERFORMANCE THAT
WAS REALLY HILARIOUS.
THERE WAS SOME BEAUTIFUL ART,
SOME OF IT MADE FROM TRASH JUST
SOME OF MY FAVORITE KIND
OF ART.
THEY WERE REPRESENTATIVES FROM
BOTH THE BICENTENNIAL PARK AND
THE BLACK ELKS LODGE PROJECTS
WHICH OUR BICENTENNIAL PROJECTS
THAT I HOPE EVERYONE CAN FIND A
LITTLE BIT OF MONEY TO SUPPORT
AND ALSO THE STATUE OF KATHY
SEMENKO IS THE THIRD OR IS IT?
YEAH, THERE ARE THREE AND I
JUST AM REALLY GRATEFUL TO A
CITY ADMINISTRATOR FOR
EVERYTHING THAT YOU HAVE DONE
TO CELEBRATE US FOR WHAT MUST
HAVE BEEN A PRETTY EXHAUSTING
YEAR FOR YOU.
THAT ALONE WOULD HAVE BEEN
ENOUGH BUT THERE WAS A LOT MORE
.
>> SO THANK YOU SO MUCH HIGHER
THANK YOU.
.
JUST A BRIEF POLICY COMMITTEE
THANK YOU.
UPDATE AS LAMEDUCK IN THE STATE
JUST A BRIEF POLICY COMMITTEE
LEGISLATURE CONTINUES TO GO ON
UPDATE AS LAMEDUCK IN THE STATE
AND UNFORTUNATELY SEEMS TO BE
LEGISLATURE CONTINUES TO GO ON
WANING AND WRAPPING COUNCIL
AND UNFORTUNATELY SEEMS TO BE
MEMBERS OF THE POLICY COMMITTEE
WANING AND WRAPPING COUNCIL
ALONG WITH OUR LOBBYING FIRM
MEMBERS OF THE POLICY COMMITTEE
DIEKEMA HAVE BEEN REALLY
ALONG WITH OUR LOBBYING FIRM
ENGAGED WITH OUR LOCAL
DIEKEMA HAVE BEEN REALLY
DELEGATION TRYING TO HELP
ENGAGED WITH OUR LOCAL
SUPPORT IN ANY WAY WE CAN
DELEGATION TRYING TO HELP
POLICIES AND BILLS THAT SUPPORT
SUPPORT IN ANY WAY WE CAN
OUR AGENDA, EVERYTHING FROM THE
POLICIES AND BILLS THAT SUPPORT
ENVIRONMENT, POLLUTER PAY,
OUR AGENDA, EVERYTHING FROM THE
WORKERS RIGHTS, HEALTH CARE,
ENVIRONMENT, POLLUTER PAY,
CIVIL RIGHTS ISSUES.
WORKERS RIGHTS, HEALTH CARE,
AND I JUST WANT TO GIVE A SHOUT
CIVIL RIGHTS ISSUES.
OUT TO OUR STATE DELEGATION.
AND I JUST WANT TO GIVE A SHOUT
I WAS JUST MEETING WITH
OUT TO OUR STATE DELEGATION.
REPRESENTATIVE FELICIA
I WAS JUST MEETING WITH
BREYTENBACH TODAY KIND
REPRESENTATIVE FELICIA
OF TALKING THROUGH WHAT TO
BREYTENBACH TODAY KIND
EXPECT FOR THE REST OF LAMEDUCK
OF TALKING THROUGH WHAT TO
AND UNFORTUNATELY IT'S NOT
EXPECT FOR THE REST OF LAMEDUCK
LOOKING GREAT FOR MUCH, MUCH
AND UNFORTUNATELY IT'S NOT
ELSE TO BE ACCOMPLISHED AND
LOOKING GREAT FOR MUCH, MUCH
THAT'S REALLY DISAPPOINTING.
ELSE TO BE ACCOMPLISHED AND
BUT I AGAIN JUST WANT TO
THAT'S REALLY DISAPPOINTING.
COMMEND OUR DELEGATION FOR
BUT I AGAIN JUST WANT TO
PUSHING AS HARD AS THEY CAN ON
COMMEND OUR DELEGATION FOR
ISSUES THAT WE CARE ABOUT HERE
PUSHING AS HARD AS THEY CAN ON
AND COMMEND OUR LOBBYING FIRM
ISSUES THAT WE CARE ABOUT HERE
FOR DOING EVERYTHING THEY CAN
AND COMMEND OUR LOBBYING FIRM
AND THE POLICY COMMITTEE FOR
FOR DOING EVERYTHING THEY CAN
BEING SO ENGAGED.
AND THE POLICY COMMITTEE FOR
>> SO THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
BEING SO ENGAGED.
AKMAN.
>> SO THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
AKMAN.
I APPRECIATED THE COMMENTS THAT
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
WE HAD TONIGHT REGARDING
I APPRECIATED THE COMMENTS THAT
SIDEWALK GAPS AND WANTING THE
WE HAD TONIGHT REGARDING
CITY TO APPROACH THESE PROJECTS
SIDEWALK GAPS AND WANTING THE
COMPREHENSIVELY THINKING ABOUT
CITY TO APPROACH THESE PROJECTS
PUTTING IN SIDEWALKS WHEN WE'RE
COMPREHENSIVELY THINKING ABOUT
RESURFACING AND ALSO
PUTTING IN SIDEWALKS WHEN WE'RE
CONSIDERING TRAFFIC CALMING.
RESURFACING AND ALSO
AND I JUST WANTED TO REMIND
CONSIDERING TRAFFIC CALMING.
FOLKS THAT WE PASSED A POLICY
AND I JUST WANTED TO REMIND
ABOUT A YEAR AND A HALF TO GO
FOLKS THAT WE PASSED A POLICY
TO INTEGRATE TRAFFIC CALMING
ABOUT A YEAR AND A HALF TO GO
WITHIN NORMAL RESERVE SAYING
TO INTEGRATE TRAFFIC CALMING
PROJECTS SO THAT WE CAN GAIN
WITHIN NORMAL RESERVE SAYING
THAT EFFICIENCY AND DO THE WORK
PROJECTS SO THAT WE CAN GAIN
THAT NEEDS TO BE DONE WHEN
THAT EFFICIENCY AND DO THE WORK
WE'RE COMING IN TO DO ANY WORK
THAT NEEDS TO BE DONE WHEN
AT ALL.
WE'RE COMING IN TO DO ANY WORK
SO I JUST FELT LIKE I SHOULD
AT ALL.
HIGHLIGHT THAT DALLAS MAVERICKS
SO I JUST FELT LIKE I SHOULD
THANK YOU.
HIGHLIGHT THAT DALLAS MAVERICKS
WELL, I KNOW A NUMBER OF THE
THANK YOU.
FOLKS WHO CAME OUT TO SPEAK
WELL, I KNOW A NUMBER OF THE
ABOUT THE SPECIFIC PROJECT ON
FOLKS WHO CAME OUT TO SPEAK
BRACKMAN HAVE HAVE LEFT THE
ABOUT THE SPECIFIC PROJECT ON
ROOM.
BRACKMAN HAVE HAVE LEFT THE
>> I KNOW THERE'S STILL SOME
ROOM.
FOLKS LISTENING ONLINE AND YOU
>> I KNOW THERE'S STILL SOME
KNOW, I I DON'T WANT TO SPEAK
FOLKS LISTENING ONLINE AND YOU
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THAT PROJECT
KNOW, I I DON'T WANT TO SPEAK
BUT I DID WANT TO SPEAK
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THAT PROJECT
SPECIFICALLY AROUND OUR GOALS
BUT I DID WANT TO SPEAK
TO CONNECT OUR OUR CITY WITH A
SPECIFICALLY AROUND OUR GOALS
STRONG NON MOTORIZED NETWORK.
TO CONNECT OUR OUR CITY WITH A
>> I APPRECIATE STAFF'S
STRONG NON MOTORIZED NETWORK.
DILIGENCE TO BALANCE PRIORITIES
>> I APPRECIATE STAFF'S
AND TO I KNOW THERE'S BEEN A
DILIGENCE TO BALANCE PRIORITIES
LOT OF EFFORT TO MAINTAIN AND
AND TO I KNOW THERE'S BEEN A
PROTECT OUR TREE CANOPY BUT WE
LOT OF EFFORT TO MAINTAIN AND
DO HAVE A GOAL OF HAVING
PROTECT OUR TREE CANOPY BUT WE
SIDEWALKS ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
DO HAVE A GOAL OF HAVING
STREET ACROSS THE COMMUNITY AND
SIDEWALKS ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
THAT'S REALLY IMPORTANT FOR FOR
STREET ACROSS THE COMMUNITY AND
OUR NON MOTORIZED AT OUR
THAT'S REALLY IMPORTANT FOR FOR
ACCESSIBILITY GOALS AND IT'S
OUR NON MOTORIZED AT OUR
ONE THAT I DON'T WANT TO LOSE
ACCESSIBILITY GOALS AND IT'S
SIGHT OF .
ONE THAT I DON'T WANT TO LOSE
I KNOW IT'S KIND OF ONE OF THE
SIGHT OF .
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WE
I KNOW IT'S KIND OF ONE OF THE
RECEIVED IN OUR PACKAGE TONIGHT
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WE
IS TO BACK AWAY FROM THAT AND
RECEIVED IN OUR PACKAGE TONIGHT
TO JUST THINK ABOUT HAVING
IS TO BACK AWAY FROM THAT AND
SIDEWALKS ON ONE SIDE OF THE
TO JUST THINK ABOUT HAVING
STREET AND I THINK WE HAVE
SIDEWALKS ON ONE SIDE OF THE
AMPLE EVIDENCE THAT WITHIN OUR
STREET AND I THINK WE HAVE
CURRENT PLANNING FRAMEWORK AS
AMPLE EVIDENCE THAT WITHIN OUR
TO WHY THAT WOULD NOT BE A GOOD
CURRENT PLANNING FRAMEWORK AS
GOAL TO BACK AWAY FROM SO
TO WHY THAT WOULD NOT BE A GOOD
APPRECIATES PEOPLE'S PASSION ON
GOAL TO BACK AWAY FROM SO
THE SUBJECT BUT ALSO WANT TO
APPRECIATES PEOPLE'S PASSION ON
MAKE SURE WE'RE STAYING FOCUSED
THE SUBJECT BUT ALSO WANT TO
ON THAT ON THAT PRIMARY GOAL.
MAKE SURE WE'RE STAYING FOCUSED
>> FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
ON THAT ON THAT PRIMARY GOAL.
COUNCIL.
>> FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
I'D LIKE TO SORT OF PICK UP A
COUNCIL.
LITTLE BIT ABOUT COUNCILMAN
I'D LIKE TO SORT OF PICK UP A
PIGGISH OBSERVED THAT WE HAD
LITTLE BIT ABOUT COUNCILMAN
OUR CLOSING OF OUR BICENTENNIAL
PIGGISH OBSERVED THAT WE HAD
OUR BICENTENNIAL YEAR THIS PAST
OUR CLOSING OF OUR BICENTENNIAL
SATURDAY.
OUR BICENTENNIAL YEAR THIS PAST
I'D LIKE TO EXPRESS A GREAT
SATURDAY.
DEAL OF THANKS TO ALL THE
I'D LIKE TO EXPRESS A GREAT
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO HAVE OVER
DEAL OF THANKS TO ALL THE
THE COURSE OF TIME OVER THE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO HAVE OVER
COURSE THIS PAST YEAR BOTH
THE COURSE OF TIME OVER THE
WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF THE
COURSE THIS PAST YEAR BOTH
MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION AND ALSO
WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF THE
FREE RANGE OUT IN THE COMMUNITY
MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION AND ALSO
EXPRESSED PRIDE AND AND
FREE RANGE OUT IN THE COMMUNITY
OPTIMISM FOR THE CITY ANN ARBOR
EXPRESSED PRIDE AND AND
ON ITS AND ITS TWO HUNDREDTH
OPTIMISM FOR THE CITY ANN ARBOR
ANNIVERSARY SINCE THE THE
ON ITS AND ITS TWO HUNDREDTH
INCORPORATION OF THE OF THE
ANNIVERSARY SINCE THE THE
VILLAGE.
INCORPORATION OF THE OF THE
>> WE HAVE A LOT TO BE PROUD
VILLAGE.
OF OVER THE COURSE OF OUR
>> WE HAVE A LOT TO BE PROUD
HISTORY.
OF OVER THE COURSE OF OUR
WE HAVE A LOT TO REFLECT UPON.
HISTORY.
YOU KNOW, LIKE ALL LIKE ALL
WE HAVE A LOT TO REFLECT UPON.
OF US ARE OUR PAST IS WELL OUR
YOU KNOW, LIKE ALL LIKE ALL
PASTS ARE MIXED AND WE LOOK TO
OF US ARE OUR PAST IS WELL OUR
HAVE OUR FUTURE BE BETTER AND
PASTS ARE MIXED AND WE LOOK TO
THIS IS YOU KNOW, THIS IS NO
HAVE OUR FUTURE BE BETTER AND
DIFFERENT THE CITY THAN ARBOR
THIS IS YOU KNOW, THIS IS NO
TAKES PLACE IN THE AMERICAN
DIFFERENT THE CITY THAN ARBOR
CONTEXT AND WE ARE MINDFUL THAT
TAKES PLACE IN THE AMERICAN
WE HAVE A COMMUNITY THAT IS
CONTEXT AND WE ARE MINDFUL THAT
DRIVEN BY BY VALUES AND AS YOU
WE HAVE A COMMUNITY THAT IS
HEAR IN THE AUDIENCE TODAY
DRIVEN BY BY VALUES AND AS YOU
EARLIER AND YOU HEAR THROUGHOUT
HEAR IN THE AUDIENCE TODAY
THE COMMUNITY THOSE VALUES ARE
EARLIER AND YOU HEAR THROUGHOUT
CRUCIAL TO US.
THE COMMUNITY THOSE VALUES ARE
THEY INCLUDE THE VALUES
CRUCIAL TO US.
OF ENVIRONMENTALISM,
THEY INCLUDE THE VALUES
SUSTAINABILITY, PLURALISM,
OF ENVIRONMENTALISM,
EQUITY AND SO FORTH AND WE LOOK
SUSTAINABILITY, PLURALISM,
TO HAVE A COMMUNITY THAT LIVES
EQUITY AND SO FORTH AND WE LOOK
BY THOSE EVERY SINGLE DAY.
TO HAVE A COMMUNITY THAT LIVES
THE WORK OF THE BICENTENNIAL
BY THOSE EVERY SINGLE DAY.
YEAR AND THE FINAL BICENTENNIAL
THE WORK OF THE BICENTENNIAL
PROJECT, THE FINAL BICENTENNIAL
YEAR AND THE FINAL BICENTENNIAL
PRESENTATION COULD NOT HAVE
PROJECT, THE FINAL BICENTENNIAL
BEEN ACCOMPLISHED WITHOUT THE
PRESENTATION COULD NOT HAVE
YEOMAN WORK OF MR. DE TONY AND
BEEN ACCOMPLISHED WITHOUT THE
THE STAFF THAT HE LEADS.
YEOMAN WORK OF MR. DE TONY AND
AND SO I WISH TO EXPRESS MY MY
THE STAFF THAT HE LEADS.
DEEP GRATITUDE THERE.
AND SO I WISH TO EXPRESS MY MY
>> AND FINALLY THE FOLKS WHO
DEEP GRATITUDE THERE.
HAD THE PLEASURE OF ATTENDING
>> AND FINALLY THE FOLKS WHO
THE THE EVENT MIGHT HAVE
HAD THE PLEASURE OF ATTENDING
NOTICED THAT I DID NOT HAVE THE
THE THE EVENT MIGHT HAVE
PLEASURE OF ATTENDING THE
NOTICED THAT I DID NOT HAVE THE
EVENT.
PLEASURE OF ATTENDING THE
I WOULD LIKE TO EXPRESS MY MY
EVENT.
GRATITUDE TO OUR MAYOR PRO TEM
I WOULD LIKE TO EXPRESS MY MY
TRAVIS FOR DENHA WHO WHO STOOD
GRATITUDE TO OUR MAYOR PRO TEM
IN FOR ME AND DID DID ALL THE
TRAVIS FOR DENHA WHO WHO STOOD
HONORS AND DID THEM HONORABLY.
IN FOR ME AND DID DID ALL THE
>> SO THANK YOU.
HONORS AND DID THEM HONORABLY.
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
>> SO THANK YOU.
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
APPOINTMENTS THAT WERE
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
PRESENTED TO THE CITY COUNCIL
APPOINTMENTS THAT WERE
ON DECEMBER 2ND.
PRESENTED TO THE CITY COUNCIL
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR TO THE BOARD
ON DECEMBER 2ND.
OF REVIEW RYAN DIBBELL AND
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR TO THE BOARD
KATHERINE WHITE MAY HAVE A
OF REVIEW RYAN DIBBELL AND
MOTION PLEASE MOVE MY COUNCIL
KATHERINE WHITE MAY HAVE A
MEMBER CORNELL SECOND BY
MOTION PLEASE MOVE MY COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
MEMBER CORNELL SECOND BY
DISCUSSION IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
ARE APPROVED.
DISCUSSION IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED
I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
ARE APPROVED.
FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
CONSIDERATION TO THE RENTERS
FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
COMMISSION CHRIS BODY AND TO
CONSIDERATION TO THE RENTERS
THE COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
COMMISSION CHRIS BODY AND TO
ISSUES ANNA CONRADE
WE HAVE
BEFORE US THE CONSENT AGENDA
MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CONSENT AGENDA BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DID SOMETHING?
NO THE FIRST THE SECOND IS JUST
A RECOMMENDATION FOR
CONSIDERATION NEXT TIME WE DID
VOTE ON THE FIRST ONE.
>> OK AWESOME.
>> THANK YOU.
THE MOST IMPROVED CONSENT
AGENDA.
>> I'M GOING TO LOOK AT THIS
SIDE OF THE TABLE NOW SECOND BY
COUNCILOR PRIOR I BELIEVE WE
HAVE SOME STAFF INTRODUCTIONS
WITH RESPECT TO THE CONCEPT
AGENDA WORK.
I WOULD SAY A THREE FIRST I'LL
MATTHEW SHOULD BE AVAILABLE FOR
THAT ONE
.
IT COULD EVEN BE MAYOR AND
COUNCIL.
I DID RECEIVE ONE QUESTION
TODAY ABOUT TARGET FACILITY
MANAGEMENT SO TARGET FACILITY
MANAGEMENT
WAS CHOSEN FOR THE
PEDESTRIAN ISLANDS AND
ON CALL
SNOW REMOVAL WITHIN MIDDAY OUR
RAMPS AND SIDEWALKS AND SO THEY
WERE CHOSEN FOR THIS WORK.
THE TOTAL CONTRACT WAS BASED ON
A NUMBER OF SNOW REMOVAL TIMES
THAT WE WOULD SEE THROUGHOUT A
SEASON.
SO THAT'S WHERE WE BASED OUR
PRICING ON AND THEN WE HAVE
ASKED YOU TO APPROVE ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS FOR THIS SERVICE AND
THE QUESTION EARLIER TODAY WAS
WHETHER OR NOT OUR CONTRACTOR
WOULD BE OPEN TO ADDITIONAL
SNOW REMOVAL CLEARING FOR ANY
OF OUR PUBLIC SIDEWALKS OR
SIDEWALKS WITHIN THE RIGHT AWAY
THAT ARE NOT FOLLOWING OUR SNOW
ORDINANCE.
AND SO WE REACH OUT TO OUR
CONTRACTOR.
THEY ARE DEFINITELY ABLE TO
ENGAGE WITH US TO PERFORM THAT
ADDITIONAL STALL REMOVAL WORK
AS REQUESTED.
BUT THERE ARE MULTIPLE STAFF
MEMBERS IN DIFFERENT SERVICE
UNITS THAT ARE INVOLVED IN THAT
ENFORCEMENT.
SO YES, OUR CONTRACTOR CAN DO
THAT WORK BUT THE COST WOULD
COME OUT OF OUR ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLAR
ALLOCATION THAT WE'VE ASKED YOU
TO APPROVE TONIGHT AND THEN THE
WORK THAT THEY WOULD BE ABLE TO
DO IS DEPENDENT REALLY ON THE
NUMBER OF TIMES THAT WE REQUEST
THEIR SERVICE TO PERFORM SNOW
REMOVAL ON THE THIRTEEN POINT
TWO MILES OF SIDEWALK AND ONE
HUNDRED AND THIRTY SIX
PEDESTRIAN PYLONS THAT ARE
LOCATED WITHIN THE CITY.
THANK YOU
.
WE DON'T WE HAVE SOMETHING FOR
KATE.
CAA IS NEXT IN A SUE WHO IS IN
THE AUDIENCE AND IN THE
AUDIENCE AND MARTY PACHON OR
AVAILABLE FOR THAT INTRODUCTION
.
I'M SORRY.
I'M SORRY MISS MCCORMACK, GOOD
EVENING.
>> I'M HAPPY TO SEE YOU THIS
WANT TO MAKE SURE I UNDERSTAND
EVENING.
WHAT YOU WOULD LIKE ME TO
WANT TO MAKE SURE I UNDERSTAND
RESPOND TO SPECIFICALLY THE
WHAT YOU WOULD LIKE ME TO
QUESTION THAT CAME FROM COUNCIL
RESPOND TO SPECIFICALLY THE
MEMBER ACKMANN.
QUESTION THAT CAME FROM COUNCIL
DO YOU HAVE THAT IS THIS IS
MEMBER ACKMANN.
UNDER C8 OK, I CAN READ IT IF
DO YOU HAVE THAT IS THIS IS
THAT'S HELPFUL THAT WOULD BE
UNDER C8 OK, I CAN READ IT IF
HELPFUL.
THAT'S HELPFUL THAT WOULD BE
HOW MANY CROSSWALK AND
HELPFUL.
CROSSWALK SAFETY ENHANCEMENT
HOW MANY CROSSWALK AND
PROJECTS ARE CURRENTLY IN THE
CROSSWALK SAFETY ENHANCEMENT
QUEUE?
PROJECTS ARE CURRENTLY IN THE
HOW MUCH ADDITIONAL FUNDING
QUEUE?
COULD THE DEPARTMENT USE AN F
HOW MUCH ADDITIONAL FUNDING
TWENTY FIVE TO MAKE PROGRESS ON
COULD THE DEPARTMENT USE AN F
MORE THAN THEY PLAN THIS YEAR
TWENTY FIVE TO MAKE PROGRESS ON
RIGHT.
MORE THAN THEY PLAN THIS YEAR
>> IS THIS A DOCUMENT THAT MOST
RIGHT.
COUNCIL MEMBERS HAVE SEEN
>> IS THIS A DOCUMENT THAT MOST
BEFORE?
COUNCIL MEMBERS HAVE SEEN
>> YOU RECALL IT I HAVE COPIES
BEFORE?
HERE.
>> YOU RECALL IT I HAVE COPIES
IF THERE ARE SOME THAT WOULD
HERE.
LIKE A REFERENCE ONE OF THE
IF THERE ARE SOME THAT WOULD
THINGS THAT WE DID WAS WE HAD
LIKE A REFERENCE ONE OF THE
UPDATED THIS A PRETTY RECENTLY
THINGS THAT WE DID WAS WE HAD
AND I JUST KIND OF GO DOWN
UPDATED THIS A PRETTY RECENTLY
THROUGH THE SUMMARY OF THAT
AND I JUST KIND OF GO DOWN
RIGHT NOW WE HAVE FIVE PROJECTS
THROUGH THE SUMMARY OF THAT
THAT ARE SCHEDULED FOR TWENTY
RIGHT NOW WE HAVE FIVE PROJECTS
TWENTY FIVE CONSTRUCTION AND
THAT ARE SCHEDULED FOR TWENTY
THOSE ARE ALL FUNDED AND
TWENTY FIVE CONSTRUCTION AND
SCHEDULED.
THOSE ARE ALL FUNDED AND
WE HAVE TWO DATES WITH LOCAL
SCHEDULED.
FUNDS AND TWO THAT ARE ALSO
WE HAVE TWO DATES WITH LOCAL
SCHEDULED FOR TWENTY TWENTY SIX
FUNDS AND TWO THAT ARE ALSO
WITH LOCAL FUNDS.
SCHEDULED FOR TWENTY TWENTY SIX
WE DO HAVE OTHERS THAT HAVE
WITH LOCAL FUNDS.
BEEN IDENTIFIED FOR THE HIGHWAY
WE DO HAVE OTHERS THAT HAVE
SAFETY IMPROVEMENT GRANTS AND
BEEN IDENTIFIED FOR THE HIGHWAY
THOSE ARE A LITTLE FURTHER OUT
SAFETY IMPROVEMENT GRANTS AND
.
THOSE ARE A LITTLE FURTHER OUT
SOME OF THOSE THAT YOU'VE SEEN
.
COLORED HERE WOULD BE PURSUED
SOME OF THOSE THAT YOU'VE SEEN
IN EITHER TWENTY SEVEN OR
COLORED HERE WOULD BE PURSUED
TWENTY EIGHT.
IN EITHER TWENTY SEVEN OR
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE DON'T
TWENTY EIGHT.
HAVE IS AN IDENTIFIED SOURCE
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE DON'T
YET FOR TWO OF THE VERY HIGH
HAVE IS AN IDENTIFIED SOURCE
PRIORITY PROJECTS THOSE ROLLED
YET FOR TWO OF THE VERY HIGH
TO THE TOP OF THE LIST BUT
PRIORITY PROJECTS THOSE ROLLED
THOSE WOULD BE PURSUED AND
TO THE TOP OF THE LIST BUT
ASSOCIATED WITH A CAPITAL
THOSE WOULD BE PURSUED AND
PROJECT, ONE WE'RE WORKING IN
ASSOCIATED WITH A CAPITAL
THAT AREA.
PROJECT, ONE WE'RE WORKING IN
WE THINK THAT THOSE WOULD BE
THAT AREA.
DONE IN TWENTY TWENTY SEVEN
WE THINK THAT THOSE WOULD BE
WITH SIPI.
DONE IN TWENTY TWENTY SEVEN
SO THE QUESTION WAS HOW MANY
WITH SIPI.
MORE DOLLARS COULD WE USE?
SO THE QUESTION WAS HOW MANY
WELL, THE DIFFICULTY HERE IS IF
MORE DOLLARS COULD WE USE?
WE'RE WORKING WITHIN THE
WELL, THE DIFFICULTY HERE IS IF
CURRENT FISCAL YEAR THERE'S NOT
WE'RE WORKING WITHIN THE
A LOT OF MONTHS OF CONSTRUCTION
CURRENT FISCAL YEAR THERE'S NOT
THAT WE HAVE WITHIN THE CURRENT
A LOT OF MONTHS OF CONSTRUCTION
FISCAL YEAR DOLLARS PROGRAMED
THAT WE HAVE WITHIN THE CURRENT
TO CARRY OVER TO A FOLLOWING
FISCAL YEAR DOLLARS PROGRAMED
FISCAL YEAR THEY MIGHT BE
TO CARRY OVER TO A FOLLOWING
OF MORE VALUE TO US THEY
FISCAL YEAR THEY MIGHT BE
ESTIMATE THAT I GOT FROM STAFF
OF MORE VALUE TO US THEY
IS MAYBE MAYBE WE COULD WORK
ESTIMATE THAT I GOT FROM STAFF
WITH SOMETHING LESS THAN A
IS MAYBE MAYBE WE COULD WORK
QUARTER OF A MILLION DOLLARS
WITH SOMETHING LESS THAN A
AND STILL MAYBE ADVANCE
QUARTER OF A MILLION DOLLARS
SOMETHING.
AND STILL MAYBE ADVANCE
ONE OF THE DIFFICULTIES IS WE'D
SOMETHING.
BE ADVANCING THOSE THAT ARE
ONE OF THE DIFFICULTIES IS WE'D
PROGRAM FOR TWENTY SIX INTO
BE ADVANCING THOSE THAT ARE
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE WHICH WOULD
PROGRAM FOR TWENTY SIX INTO
LEAVE US TWENTY SIX OPEN BUT
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE WHICH WOULD
AGAIN FOR TWENTY TWENTY SIX
LEAVE US TWENTY SIX OPEN BUT
WE'D BE LOOKING FOR GRANTS AND
AGAIN FOR TWENTY TWENTY SIX
SO FUNDING BEYOND THAT LEVEL
WE'D BE LOOKING FOR GRANTS AND
MEANS BASICALLY WE'RE TAKING
SO FUNDING BEYOND THAT LEVEL
APPROACHING GRANT FUNDING FOR
MEANS BASICALLY WE'RE TAKING
THOSE PROJECTS OFF THE TABLE SO
APPROACHING GRANT FUNDING FOR
THE EVALUATION WHETHER OR NOT
THOSE PROJECTS OFF THE TABLE SO
THAT MAKES SENSE TO TRY TO DO
THE EVALUATION WHETHER OR NOT
THAT WITH FUNDS THAT WE ALREADY
THAT MAKES SENSE TO TRY TO DO
HAVE IN HAND VERSUS TAKE
THAT WITH FUNDS THAT WE ALREADY
ADVANTAGE OF THE GRANT FUNDS
HAVE IN HAND VERSUS TAKE
THAT MIGHT BE AVAILABLE FOR
ADVANTAGE OF THE GRANT FUNDS
THAT PURPOSE.
THAT MIGHT BE AVAILABLE FOR
SO I HOPE THAT'S HELPFUL.
THAT PURPOSE.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF THERE ARE
SO I HOPE THAT'S HELPFUL.
ANY ADDITIONAL FOLLOW ON
>> I DON'T KNOW IF THERE ARE
QUESTIONS.
ANY ADDITIONAL FOLLOW ON
NO, THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
NO, THANK YOU.
YOU CAN SEND THE OTHER JUST
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
FURTHER DISCUSSION WITH RESPECT
YOU CAN SEND THE OTHER JUST
TO GENERAL COUNCIL MEMBER
FURTHER DISCUSSION WITH RESPECT
BRAKE'S YEAH I WOULD LIKE TO
TO GENERAL COUNCIL MEMBER
SEE A THREE AND A EIGHT FOR
BRAKE'S YEAH I WOULD LIKE TO
DISCUSSION FOR FURTHER
SEE A THREE AND A EIGHT FOR
DISCUSSION OF A CONSENT AGENDA
DISCUSSION FOR FURTHER
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF C THREE
DISCUSSION OF A CONSENT AGENDA
INSITUTE COUNCILOR COUNCILOR
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF C THREE
DENHA OF COURSE I'M NOT GOING
INSITUTE COUNCILOR COUNCILOR
TO PULL OUT BUT I DO JUST WANT
DENHA OF COURSE I'M NOT GOING
TO NOTE THAT WE HAVE A
TO PULL OUT BUT I DO JUST WANT
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
TO NOTE THAT WE HAVE A
WITH OUR FIREFIGHTERS UNION AND
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I THINK
WITH OUR FIREFIGHTERS UNION AND
IS WORTH NOTING IS I BELIEVE WE
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I THINK
WILL BE THE FIRST CITY IN THE
IS WORTH NOTING IS I BELIEVE WE
STATE TO APPROVE MENTAL HEALTH
WILL BE THE FIRST CITY IN THE
DAYS FOR OUR FIREFIGHTERS.
STATE TO APPROVE MENTAL HEALTH
AND SO I KNOW THAT THAT IS
DAYS FOR OUR FIREFIGHTERS.
SOMETHING THAT WAS INCREDIBLY
AND SO I KNOW THAT THAT IS
IMPORTANT TO THEIR NEGOTIATIONS
SOMETHING THAT WAS INCREDIBLY
AND THAT THE CITY WAS HAPPY TO
IMPORTANT TO THEIR NEGOTIATIONS
BE ABLE TO ACCOMMODATE.
AND THAT THE CITY WAS HAPPY TO
AND SO I'M GRATEFUL WE WERE
BE ABLE TO ACCOMMODATE.
ABLE TO MOVE THIS CONTRACT
AND SO I'M GRATEFUL WE WERE
FORWARD AND MAKE SURE THAT OUR
ABLE TO MOVE THIS CONTRACT
OUR FIREFIGHTERS ARE
FORWARD AND MAKE SURE THAT OUR
COVERED UNDER A STRONG CONTRACT
OUR FIREFIGHTERS ARE
FOR DISCUSSION.
COVERED UNDER A STRONG CONTRACT
MR. TONY.
FOR DISCUSSION.
MAYOR, I THINK IT'S WORTH
MR. TONY.
NOTING ACCORDING TO STAFF, THIS
MAYOR, I THINK IT'S WORTH
IS ONLY THE SECOND TIME IN
NOTING ACCORDING TO STAFF, THIS
THIRTY FIVE YEARS THAT THE
IS ONLY THE SECOND TIME IN
CONTRACT HAS BEEN NEGOTIATED ON
THIRTY FIVE YEARS THAT THE
TIME.
CONTRACT HAS BEEN NEGOTIATED ON
WE'RE PROUD OF THAT FURTHER
TIME.
DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR OF THE
WE'RE PROUD OF THAT FURTHER
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR OF THE
EXCEPTION OF THREE NCAA PCI
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
HOLD THE CONSENT AGENDA WITH
EXCEPTION OF THREE NCAA PCI
THE EXCEPTION OF THREE C A
HOLD THE CONSENT AGENDA WITH
THREE AND EIGHT IS APPROVED
THE EXCEPTION OF THREE C A
WITH TEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
THREE AND EIGHT IS APPROVED
PRESENT ALL VOTED IN THE
WITH TEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING THE
PRESENT ALL VOTED IN THE
EIGHT FOOT REQUIREMENT WITH
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING THE
RESPECT TO SEET ONE SEVEN SEET
EIGHT FOOT REQUIREMENT WITH
THREE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
RESPECT TO SEET ONE SEVEN SEET
GENERAL SERVICES CONTRACT WITH
THREE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
TARGET FACILITY MANAGEMENT LLC
GENERAL SERVICES CONTRACT WITH
FREIGHT FOR SIDEWALKS REMOVAL
TARGET FACILITY MANAGEMENT LLC
SERVICES NOT TO EXCEED ONE
FREIGHT FOR SIDEWALKS REMOVAL
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
SERVICES NOT TO EXCEED ONE
DOLLARS BY COUNCIL EXECUTIVE BY
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
DOLLARS BY COUNCIL EXECUTIVE BY
DISCUSSION OF THREE COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
MEMBER BREAKS.
DISCUSSION OF THREE COUNCIL
THANK YOU AND THANKS FOR THAT
MEMBER BREAKS.
INITIAL STAFF RESPONSE.
THANK YOU AND THANKS FOR THAT
LET ME BEGIN BY SAYING THAT I
INITIAL STAFF RESPONSE.
AM VERY EXCITED ABOUT THE
LET ME BEGIN BY SAYING THAT I
THREE.
AM VERY EXCITED ABOUT THE
I THINK IT'S A BIG MOVE FORWARD
THREE.
FOR OUR CITY.
I THINK IT'S A BIG MOVE FORWARD
WE HAVE HAD CHALLENGES WITH
FOR OUR CITY.
HAVING PARK STAFF GOING OUT AND
WE HAVE HAD CHALLENGES WITH
DOING THIS DOING THIS WORK
HAVING PARK STAFF GOING OUT AND
ACROSS THE CITY.
DOING THIS DOING THIS WORK
IT ESSENTIALLY MEANS THAT
ACROSS THE CITY.
IMPORTANT PARK FACILITIES
IT ESSENTIALLY MEANS THAT
AREN'T GETTING CLEARED UNTIL
IMPORTANT PARK FACILITIES
LATER AND THOSE ARE IMPORTANT
AREN'T GETTING CLEARED UNTIL
ACCESS POINTS THROUGH OUR
LATER AND THOSE ARE IMPORTANT
COMMUNITY.
ACCESS POINTS THROUGH OUR
SO THAT'S EXPEDITING THIS WORK
COMMUNITY.
AND MAKING SURE IT'S HAPPENING
SO THAT'S EXPEDITING THIS WORK
SIMULTANEOUSLY IS REALLY
AND MAKING SURE IT'S HAPPENING
IMPORTANT AND I THINK A A BIG
SIMULTANEOUSLY IS REALLY
STEP FORWARD TO IMPROVING
IMPORTANT AND I THINK A A BIG
WINTER CONNECTIVITY IN OUR
STEP FORWARD TO IMPROVING
COMMUNITY.
WINTER CONNECTIVITY IN OUR
I DID WANT TO FOLLOW UP ON SOME
COMMUNITY.
OF THE PUBLIC COMMENTS THAT
I DID WANT TO FOLLOW UP ON SOME
WERE RAISED AND SOME ADDITIONAL
OF THE PUBLIC COMMENTS THAT
FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS.
WERE RAISED AND SOME ADDITIONAL
>> MY SPECIFIC QUESTION WAS
FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS.
AROUND DO WE HAVE THE STAFF
>> MY SPECIFIC QUESTION WAS
INTERNALLY TO BE ABLE TO DO THE
AROUND DO WE HAVE THE STAFF
IF FOLKS AREN'T MEETING OUR
INTERNALLY TO BE ABLE TO DO THE
SNOW OUR PRIVATE SIDEWALK
IF FOLKS AREN'T MEETING OUR
CLEARING ORDINANCE, THEY'VE
SNOW OUR PRIVATE SIDEWALK
BEEN TICKETED AND THEY HAVE
CLEARING ORDINANCE, THEY'VE
CLEARED THERE THEIR SIDEWALKS
BEEN TICKETED AND THEY HAVE
AND THE APPROPRIATE AMOUNT
CLEARED THERE THEIR SIDEWALKS
OF TIME OUR ORDINANCE DOES
AND THE APPROPRIATE AMOUNT
ALLOW FOR US TO GO OUT AND
OF TIME OUR ORDINANCE DOES
CLEAR THOSE SIDEWALKS.
ALLOW FOR US TO GO OUT AND
WE HAVE NOT DONE THAT.
CLEAR THOSE SIDEWALKS.
WE HAVE NOT USED THAT PART
WE HAVE NOT DONE THAT.
OF OUR OUR OUR CODE .
WE HAVE NOT USED THAT PART
WE DID UPDATE IT THIS PAST YEAR
OF OUR OUR OUR CODE .
AND THIS IS A PRIORITY FOR OUR
WE DID UPDATE IT THIS PAST YEAR
COMMUNITY.
AND THIS IS A PRIORITY FOR OUR
SO THE QUESTION IS DO WE HAVE
COMMUNITY.
THE ABILITY TO DO THAT
SO THE QUESTION IS DO WE HAVE
INTERNALLY?
THE ABILITY TO DO THAT
WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO BUILD IN
INTERNALLY?
AND MAKE UP THOSE THOSE FEES.
WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO BUILD IN
THAT'S WHAT OUR ORDINANCE
AND MAKE UP THOSE THOSE FEES.
ALLOWS US TO DO.
THAT'S WHAT OUR ORDINANCE
SO DO WE HAVE THE CAPACITY TO
ALLOWS US TO DO.
DO THAT IN-HOUSE OR DO WE NEED
SO DO WE HAVE THE CAPACITY TO
TO CONTRACT WITH AN ENTITY TO
DO THAT IN-HOUSE OR DO WE NEED
BE ABLE TO DO THAT?
TO CONTRACT WITH AN ENTITY TO
I'M NOT SUGGESTING WE AMEND
BE ABLE TO DO THAT?
THIS CONTRACT TONIGHT TO DO
I'M NOT SUGGESTING WE AMEND
THAT BECAUSE I THINK THAT WOULD
THIS CONTRACT TONIGHT TO DO
TAKE SOME MORE TIME AND
THAT BECAUSE I THINK THAT WOULD
THINKING THROUGH WITH STAFF.
TAKE SOME MORE TIME AND
>> BUT I'M JUST I WANT TO
THINKING THROUGH WITH STAFF.
UNDERSTAND HOW WE MOVE FORWARD
>> BUT I'M JUST I WANT TO
WITH THIS PART OF OUR
UNDERSTAND HOW WE MOVE FORWARD
ORDINANCE.
WITH THIS PART OF OUR
>> IT WOULD BE A MONUMENTAL
ORDINANCE.
STRUGGLE FOR US TO ASSUME
>> IT WOULD BE A MONUMENTAL
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THAT.
STRUGGLE FOR US TO ASSUME
>> WE REALLY DO NOT HAVE THE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THAT.
CAPACITY TO TAKE THAT OR A
>> WE REALLY DO NOT HAVE THE
SEVERAL THINGS ARE ASSOCIATED
CAPACITY TO TAKE THAT OR A
WITH THAT ONE.
SEVERAL THINGS ARE ASSOCIATED
WE JUST DON'T HAVE THE PEOPLE
WITH THAT ONE.
POWER IN OUR STAFF TO BE ABLE
WE JUST DON'T HAVE THE PEOPLE
TO DO THAT.
POWER IN OUR STAFF TO BE ABLE
I MEAN AS IT IS NOW WE HAVE
TO DO THAT.
AUGMENTED OUR ABILITY TO GET
I MEAN AS IT IS NOW WE HAVE
SUPPORT FOR PLOWING BECAUSE WE
AUGMENTED OUR ABILITY TO GET
WANT TO GET INTO LOCALS SOONER.
SUPPORT FOR PLOWING BECAUSE WE
THIS CONTRACT WILL HELP US
WANT TO GET INTO LOCALS SOONER.
BECAUSE EVERY TIME WE ROUND THE
THIS CONTRACT WILL HELP US
CORNER WE BACKFILL IN BASICALLY
BECAUSE EVERY TIME WE ROUND THE
A CORNER CURB AND SO THIS
CORNER WE BACKFILL IN BASICALLY
CONTRACT IS GOING TO HELP US DO
A CORNER CURB AND SO THIS
THAT AND TAKE CARE OF THE
CONTRACT IS GOING TO HELP US DO
ISLAND'S.
THAT AND TAKE CARE OF THE
SO OUR BECAUSE OUR PROPERTY
ISLAND'S.
OWNERS AREN'T YOU KNOW, THAT'S
SO OUR BECAUSE OUR PROPERTY
NOT REALLY PART OF THEIR
OWNERS AREN'T YOU KNOW, THAT'S
FRONTAGE TO GO AND CLEAR THE
NOT REALLY PART OF THEIR
ALLEY.
FRONTAGE TO GO AND CLEAR THE
SO WE'RE GOING TO CLEAR THE
ALLEY.
ALLIANCE ISLAND TO MAKE THAT
SO WE'RE GOING TO CLEAR THE
ACCESSIBLE IF WE WERE TO PLAN
ALLIANCE ISLAND TO MAKE THAT
FOR CLEARING OF PUBLIC
ACCESSIBLE IF WE WERE TO PLAN
SIDEWALKS THAT ARE CURRENTLY
FOR CLEARING OF PUBLIC
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY
SIDEWALKS THAT ARE CURRENTLY
OWNERS, THERE'S A WHOLE LOT
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY
OF ISSUES ASSOCIATED WITH THAT
OWNERS, THERE'S A WHOLE LOT
IN ADDITION TO BASICALLY THE
OF ISSUES ASSOCIATED WITH THAT
MANPOWER THAT WE HAVE.
IN ADDITION TO BASICALLY THE
AND YOU KNOW, PART OF THAT HAS
MANPOWER THAT WE HAVE.
TO DO WITH THE WAY THAT OUR
AND YOU KNOW, PART OF THAT HAS
ORDINANCE READS ABOUT GIVING
TO DO WITH THE WAY THAT OUR
NOTICE ABOUT POTENTIALLY SITING
ORDINANCE READS ABOUT GIVING
THERE'S TIMEFRAMES THAT RUN
NOTICE ABOUT POTENTIALLY SITING
WITH THAT BY THE TIME WE WOULD
THERE'S TIMEFRAMES THAT RUN
ACTUALLY ASSIGN SOMEBODY TO
WITH THAT BY THE TIME WE WOULD
REMOVE SNOW WHETHER IT'S A
ACTUALLY ASSIGN SOMEBODY TO
CONTRACTOR OR WHETHER IT IS
REMOVE SNOW WHETHER IT'S A
CITY STAFF IN MANY CASES BASED
CONTRACTOR OR WHETHER IT IS
ON THE TYPE OF SNOW WE HAVE,
CITY STAFF IN MANY CASES BASED
THE SNOW WOULD BE GONE.
ON THE TYPE OF SNOW WE HAVE,
IS THAT THE LONG TERM OF THE
THE SNOW WOULD BE GONE.
DELAY BY THE TIME WE RUN THOSE
IS THAT THE LONG TERM OF THE
PROCESSES OF NOTIFICATION AND
DELAY BY THE TIME WE RUN THOSE
ET CETERA.
PROCESSES OF NOTIFICATION AND
SO IF WE'RE GOING TO CONSIDER
ET CETERA.
SOMETHING LIKE THAT, WE
SO IF WE'RE GOING TO CONSIDER
PROBABLY NEED TO GO BACK AND
SOMETHING LIKE THAT, WE
LOOK AT THAT ORDINANCE.
PROBABLY NEED TO GO BACK AND
WE ALSO NEED TO TAKE A LOOK AT
LOOK AT THAT ORDINANCE.
THE ABILITY OF OTHER STAFF IN
WE ALSO NEED TO TAKE A LOOK AT
THE UNITS THAT WE'RE TALKING
THE ABILITY OF OTHER STAFF IN
ABOUT WHICH INCLUDE COMMUNITY
THE UNITS THAT WE'RE TALKING
STANDARDS
AND WHICH INCLUDE
FINANCING AND BEING ABLE TO
EXECUTE THOSE OTHER PIECES
OF THE ORDINANCE, WHICH IS WHY
WE CAN'T WE CAN'T SPEAK FOR
EVERYONE ABOUT HOW EFFECTIVELY
WE COULD DO THAT.
BUT FROM A STANDPOINT OF BEING
ABLE TO HAVE CONTRACT DOLLARS
TO SUPPORT SOME OF THAT
CLEARING SHOULD ALL THOSE
THINGS COME TOGETHER, THERE MAY
BE SOME WIGGLE ROOM WITHIN THE
CONTRACT WE CURRENTLY HAVE.
YOU KNOW, WE DID A PRETTY GOOD
JOB OF ESTIMATING WHAT WE THINK
WE MIGHT NEED.
BUT IF WE IF WE DON'T HAVE
MULTIPLE BIG STORMS, WE MAY
HAVE SOME DOLLARS WITHIN THAT.
AND THAT'S WHY MR. MATTHEWS,
YOU SUGGESTED THAT WE MAY HAVE
SOME FREEBOARD WITHIN THAT
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND TO
DO SOME ASSISTANCE BUT LIKELY
NOT IF WE HAVE LOTS
OF DIFFERENT SNOWS AND OUR
GOING OUT MULTIPLE TIMES I'M
GOING TO OH SURE.
JUST TO ADD THAT IF IT CAME
DOWN TO A POINT WHERE WE NEEDED
TO POTENTIALLY AMEND THE
CONTRACT WITH ADDITIONAL
DOLLARS IF THIS WAS A
SIGNIFICANT ISSUE WE WERE
CONFRONTED WITH, WE WOULD FIND
A WAY TO DO THAT.
SO THE MONEY IS REALLY NOT THE
ISSUE FOR US FOR THIS CALFORD I
THINK YOU HIT THE THREE MINUTE
I'M ALL RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
COUNCILMAN GRAZIANO.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
THANK YOU.
STAFF.
MR. MCCORMICK, FOR FOR GOING
OVER SOME OF THE POTENTIAL
POSSIBILE YEARS OF THIS
CONTRACT AND WHETHER OR NOT IT
COULD BE AMENDED.
ONE THING I WANT TO RAISE TO
OUR ATTENTION IS THAT SIDEWALK
SNOW REMOVAL IS A SIGNIFICANT
ISSUE AMONG PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES AND OLDER ADULTS
AND AS A LIAISON TO THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES, I'VE WE'VE BEEN HEARING
COLLECTIVELY AS A GROUP FROM A
TON OF RESIDENTS I BELIEVE THE
CHAIR RECENTLY EMAILED YOU
ABOUT IT AS WELL OF RESIDENTS
ASKING IF THE OF THE CITY IS
VOLUNTEER NO-MATCH PROGRAM WAS
GOING TO RUN AGAIN.
>> AND MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
IS NOT GOING TO HAPPEN AND I
GUESS I'M SAYING ALL OF THIS TO
SAY THAT YOU I'M HOPING THAT WE
CAN IF NOT AMEND THIS CONTRACT
THINK ABOUT OTHER CREATIVE WAYS
THAT WE COULD HAVE SOME SORT
OF CITY BASED SERVICE THAT
COULD HELP SPECIFICALLY OLDER
ADULTS AND PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES.
I KNOW THAT IN DETROIT FOR
EXAMPLE, THEY USED I BELIEVE
SOME OF THEIR ARPAD TO CONTRACT
A C THREE AND WE HAVE AN
ORGANIZATION CALLED SNOW BODIES
IN THE CITY THAT POTENTIALLY
COULD BE INTERESTED.
I DON'T KNOW OF THEIR CAPACITY
BUT I'M HOPING WE CAN THINK
ABOUT THE ACCESSIBILITY OF THIS
AS WELL.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION, BRUCE.
YEAH, I APPRECIATE THAT
ADDITIONAL FEEDBACK.
WE HAVE REVISITED THIS
ORDINANCE A FEW TIMES AND WE
HAVE NOT BEEN INFORMED DURING
THAT PROCESS THAT THAT WE HAD A
CHALLENGE WITH THE ENFORCEMENT
PIECE OF THAT.
I CAN UNDERSTAND THE LOGISTICS
OF THAT AND THAT BEING ACCURATE
,THIS IS A PRIORITY.
WE'VE BEEN WE'VE HAD A NUMBER
OF RESOLUTIONS SINCE I'VE BEEN
ON COUNCIL TRYING TO MAKE
PROGRESS ON THIS.
I THINK AS SOME OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENTER SPOKE, YOU KNOW, WE
NEED TO WE REALLY NEED TO MAKE
HEADWAY ON THIS AND THERE ARE
SOME PERSISTENT CHALLENGES
INCLUDING BUSINESS OWNERS ALONG
MAJOR CORRIDORS THAT ARE JUST
NOT CLEARING THEIR SIDEWALKS.
AND WHEN YOU SEE SNOW AFTER
SNOW AFTER SNOW, IT'S A
COMPOUNDED ISSUE.
SO I AM HOPING THAT STAFF CAN
GO BACK, YOU KNOW, AFTER THIS
MEETING AND IDENTIFY IT LOOKS
LIKE TARGET HAS THE ABILITY TO
TAKE ON THIS WORK.
WE HAVE THE ABILITY THROUGH OUR
ORDINANCE TO BUILD TO RECOUP
THE FEES SO IT SHOULD BE
REVENUE NEUTRAL FOR US IN THE
LONG TERM.
>> YOU KNOW, WE WE NEED TO
FIGURE OUT HOW YOU KNOW, WHEN
YOU'VE HAD A SNOWSTORM AND AND
SNOW IS ACCUMULATING, HOW WE WE
MAKE SURE THAT OUR SIDEWALKS
ARE OUR CLEAR SNOW COUNCIL
.
I WANTED TO THANK CITY STAFF
FOR BRINGING THIS UP AND TO
WORK ON THIS BECAUSE THIS WAS
ONE OF THE VERY FIRST THINGS
THAT CAME TO ME IS A NEW
COUNCIL MEMBER WHEN I WAS NEWLY
ELECTED.
I KNOW THAT SOME OF THE
COMMENTS WERE AROUND THIS NEEDS
TO BE CITYWIDE WHICH I DON'T
DISAGREE WITH.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO QUICKLY
POINT OUT THAT ON 12, 23, 22
YOU THE CITY DID PROVIDE CITY
STAFF DID PROVIDE A MEMO TO
CITY COUNCIL THAT LOOKED AT ALL
OF THE DIFFERENT OPTIONS FOR
SNOW REMOVAL AND WHAT THAT
MIGHT COST.
AND SO YES, THIS IS A SMALL
LEVEL BUT IT IS A SMALL LEVEL
OF IF WE WERE TO DO CITYWIDE IN
TWENTY TWENTY TWO I CAN IMAGINE
THE COSTS HAVE GONE UP A LOT
SINCE THEN.
IT WAS ESTIMATED TO BE FIVE
POINT TWO MILLION DOLLARS FOR
FOUR TWO YEARS FOR THAT TYPE
OF SERVICE.
SO THIS IS NOT THIS IS A REALLY
EXPENSIVE PROBLEM FOR US TO BE
TAKING BABY STEPS TOWARDS.
BUT I THINK A STEP FORWARD IS
STILL A STEP FORWARD AND
ADDRESSING THE DENHA WHEN WE
KNOW PEOPLE WANT TO VISIT OUR
DOWNTOWN AND GET AROUND SAFELY
AND TO YOUR POINT ALL DIFFERENT
ABILITIES.
I THINK THAT'S THAT'S JUST
REALLY IMPORTANT AND THIS IS
PROGRESS.
SO AS FRUSTRATING AS IT CAN BE,
THIS IS PROGRESS.
>> THANK YOU, SIR.
CORNELL, I'M SORRY.
I JUST WANT TO HEAR IT AGAIN.
COUNCILOR BRACKMAN, THANKS.
I WANTED TO POINT OUT THE
CHANGE IN THE ORDINANCE THAT WE
MADE OVER THE SUMMER.
YOU KNOW, GREAT TIME TO ENACT A
SNOW ORDINANCE THAT CHANGED THE
FINE STRUCTURE AND IN
PARTICULAR WE WERE SEEKING TO
DEAL IN A BETTER WAY WITH
BUSINESS FRONTAGES BECAUSE WE
HEARD THAT THAT WAS A BIG
PROBLEM AMONG SOME OF OUR
HEAVILY TRAVELED CORRIDORS JUST
PERSIST NOT DOING ANYTHING.
AND I WOULD THINK THAT OUR HOPE
THROUGH THIS IS THAT PEOPLE
FEEL THE CONSEQUENCES OF THEIR
ACTIONS AND THEN DON'T DO IT
AGAIN.
BUT THAT ALSO REQUIRES TIMELY
ENFORCEMENT AND I THINK
PROBABLY THE ABILITY TO MOVE
BEYOND COMPLAINT DRIVEN
PROCESS.
SO I HOPE THAT WE CAN ALSO
THINK ABOUT IN COMING BUDGET
SEASON YOU KNOW HOW WE THINK
ABOUT FUNDING THE NECESSARY
ENFORCEMENT SO THAT PEOPLE KNOW
WHEN THEY'RE EGREGIOUSLY NOT
FOLLOWING THE ORDINANCE THAT
THERE'S A PENALTY FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED
IT IS APPROVED A RESOLUTION TO
APPROPRIATE FUNDING FOR ONE
TIME STRATEGIC INITIATIVES TWO
MILLION 750000 AND RELOCATE
BICENTENNIAL FUNDING TO LEGACY
PROJECTS 200000 BY COUNCILMAN
SECONDED BY COUNCILOR OUR
DISCUSSION 368
.
SO FOR MY PART I'D LIKE TO
EXPRESS A GREAT GRATITUDE TO
THE ADMINISTRATOR FOR BRINGING
FORWARD THIS AND TO STAFF FOR
HELPING US HAVE A MUNICIPAL
ORGANIZATION THAT ROLLS OUT
PRUDENT SURPLUSES RATHER THAN
THE OTHER WAY AROUND.
YOU KNOW WE HAVE A VIBRANT UNIT
HERE, GROWING COMMUNITY AND
WHAT WE SEE HERE IN PART IS ARE
THE RESULTS OF THAT YOU WE AS
FOLKS KNOW SUCCESSFUL CITIES
GROW AND WE HAVE OVER THE PAST
NUMBER OF YEARS FOCUSED ON AN
ENABLING GROWTH WITHIN THE
COMMUNITY AND IN PART THE THE
STRONG FISCAL HEALTH OF OUR
CITY IS THE RESULT OF THAT
POLICY.
WE ALSO HAVE RECEIVED
ADDITIONAL FUNDS FROM THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN WHICH YOU KNOW ALL
THANKS TO TO TO LANSING AND
FINALLY THERE HAVE BEEN
ADDITIONAL ADDITIONAL MARIJUANA
PROCEEDS WHICH HAVE COME OUR
WAY AND SO WE ARE WE ARE
GRATEFUL GRATEFUL OF COURSE FOR
THAT FOR MY PART I'M EXCITED
FOR THE BROADER CONVERSATION.
BUT AS SOME MEMBERS OF THE
GROUP HERE KNOW, THERE IS ONE
CHANGE WHICH I WOULD LIKE TO
REQUEST COUNCIL'S HELP WITH.
THAT IS ANDY CLARK.
IF YOU'D BE SO KIND IS SENDING
THAT ON OUT.
I'D LIKE TO ASK ONE OF OUR
COUNCIL MEMBERS TO MOVE THE THE
ADDITION OF ADDITIONAL BULLET
THAT IS TO SAY TO BRING WHICH
WOULD BE A BULLET BLOW IN THE
FIRST RESOLVE CAUSE OF 100
OF 100000 DOLLARS TO THE ELKS
LODGE REPAIR AND RESTORATION.
THIS WOULD BE AN ADDITIONAL
ALLOCATION FROM THE FROM THE
REALLOCATION OF BICENTENNIAL
FUNDS BRINGING THE TOTAL
ALLOCATION UNDER THIS THIS
RESOLUTION TO 200000 DOLLARS.
THE THEORY ON THAT ON THAT
REQUEST ABOUT BROADLY IS THAT
THE BICENTENNIAL PROJECTS ARE
ARE THEMSELVES QUITE IMPORTANT
BUT ALSO THAT THERE ARE
EXISTING CHANNELS FOR MATERIAL
FUNDING COMING INTO
BICENTENNIAL PARK THAT ARE NOT
AVAILABLE TO THE LCS AND SO I'M
EXCITED BY THE PROSPECT OF US
BEING ABLE TO LEND AN
ADDITIONAL HAND IN THIS CONTEXT
.
MOVED BY COUNCILOR WATSON,
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
THAT HAVING BEEN SENT AROUND A
DISCUSSION ON THAT AMENDMENT
PRIOR TO THE BODY BRINGING THE
BODY FURTHER DISCUSSION OF C8
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON, I WANTED
TO TOUCH BRIEFLY ON THE MILLION
DOLLARS THAT IS BEING SET ASIDE
FOR POTENTIAL IMPACTS FROM THE
NEW ADMINISTRATION AND ONE
OF THE IMPACTS THAT THAT IS
VERY LIKELY AND MIGHT NOT EVEN
BE A SPECIFIC POLICY BUT IS
INFLATION AND IT WILL AFFECT
OUR SOCIAL SAFETY NET WORK OUR
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROGRAMS MOST
DIRECTLY INFLATION HAS BEEN
POSITED AS ONE OF THE MAIN
CAUSES FOR THE COUNTY WIDE
INCREASE IN FAMILY HOMELESSNESS
AND THE NEW ENTRANCE TO OUR
CONTINUUM OF CARE AND INFLATION
ALSO MAKES IT MORE AND MORE
DIFFICULT FOR FOOD PANTRIES TO
REMAIN STOCKED AND STAFFED.
I HAVE SEEN THIS FIRSTHAND
ESPECIALLY DURING TOURS I TOOK
SOME OF THE COMMUNITY ACTION
NETWORK SITES IN ANN ARBOR IN
YPSILANTI THIS FALL AND AT
JAZZFEST WHICH SERVES REFUGEES
SO THESE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
MANY ORGANIZATIONS THAT COULD
BE MET WITH A DECREASE IN
FEDERAL FUNDING OR SIMPLY JUST
HAVE OR THEY COULD JUST SIMPLY
HAVE TO DEAL WITH THEIR FUNDS
GOING A SHORTER DISTANCE.
>> I I THINK THIS FUNDING GIVES
US SOME FLEXIBILITY TO TO MEET
SITUATIONS AS THEY ARISE AND I
IT ALSO HELPS US CONTRIBUTE TO
THE BROADER PROGRAMS THAT THE
CITY FUNDS LIKE THE HUMAN
SERVICES PARTNERSHIP AT THE
COUNTY AND MANY OTHER PROGRAMS
FOR THE SOCIAL
SOCIOECONOMICALLY
DISADVANTAGED.
I'M ALSO GLAD TO SEE THE
RESPONSE FUNDING CARRYING
FORWARD AND I'D LIKE TO
HIGHLIGHT THIS IS AN ADDITIONAL
250000 IN ADDITION TO MARIJUANA
EXCISE TAX FUNDS THAT HAVE BEEN
COMMITTED TO OUR RESPONSE TO
WORKING THROUGH THAT COMMITMENT
.
AND I'M ALSO GRATEFUL TO SEE
THE FUNDING FOR THE YEAH I I
ALSO JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT I
THINK IT IS EXTREMELY PRUDENT
TO THINK ABOUT POLITICAL
RESILIENCE AND WE DO NOT KNOW
WHAT IS COMING.
I THINK YOU'RE RIGHT.
WE CAN BE SURE THAT INFLATION
WILL BE PART OF IT BUT WE DON'T
KNOW WHAT KINDS OF THINGS ARE
GOING TO BE CUT.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT KINDS
OF PROJECTS ARE GOING TO BE
STOPPED MIDWAY AND FOR US AT
THE LOCAL LEVEL TO BE ABLE TO
COUNTER MEASURE WHAT HAPPENS AT
THE FEDERAL LEVEL IS REALLY
IMPORTANT AND I'M REALLY
GRATEFUL FOR THIS FORESIGHT.
>> JAZIRAH THANK YOU.
I ALSO WANTED TO JUST COMMENT
ON THE WISDOM OF THIS POTENTIAL
OR THE SETTING ASIDE OF THE
MILLION DOLLARS.
YOU KNOW, WE'VE WE'VE BEEN
HAVING DISCUSSIONS AND WE WILL
CONTINUE TO HAVE DISCUSSIONS
ABOUT POLICIES THAT MAY HAVE
LOCAL IMPACT AND AND HOW WE
MIGHT RESPOND WITH POLICIES
OF OUR OWN BUT THAT ONLY GOES
SO FAR AND FUNDING IS A CRUCIAL
PIECE OF IT AS WELL AND BEING
ABLE TO MAKE UP THE GAP FOR
FUNDING THAT WE HAVE PREVIOUSLY
ENJOYED AND MAY GO FOR A TIME
WITHOUT.
I ALSO WANTED TO THANK THE
ADMINISTRATOR FOR THE INCLUSION
WITH REGARDS TO ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
I THINK THIS IS YET ANOTHER
PROOF OF POINT THAT WE ARE
SERIOUS ABOUT ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND GETTING THE
OFFICE OFF THE GROUND AND
DIGGING INTO THE WORK OF TAKING
MORE CONTROL OF OUR DESTINY
WHEN IT COMES TO THESE MATTERS.
AND SO THIS ALLOCATION
DEMONSTRATES THAT WE'RE GOING
TO WE'RE GOING TO DO THAT WORK.
>> SO THANK YOU SO RACKMAN.
THANK YOU.
I HAVE A NUMBER OF THINGS I'D
LIKE TO DISCUSS ON BUT I GUESS
TAKING IN TURN YOU KNOW, I KNOW
A LOT OF US ARE FEELING A LOT
OF TREPIDATION ABOUT POTENTIAL
IMPACTS OF THE NEW FEDERAL
ADMINISTRATION AND THE THINGS
THAT WE CARE ABOUT LOCALLY.
FOR EXAMPLE, EVEN WE HEARD AT
THE BEGINNING OF THIS MEETING
FROM THE ATHEA ABOUT HOW
THEY'RE WATCHING VERY CAREFULLY
TO ASSESS WHETHER THERE WILL BE
IMPACTS TO TRANSIT FUNDS THAT
HAVE ALREADY BEEN OBLIGATED.
I ALSO TALKED WITH
ADMINISTRATOR TONY THIS MORNING
ABOUT THIS ALLOCATION AND I
UNDERSTAND THAT THE INTENT
BEHIND IS TO BE RESPONSIVE TO
THE CONCERNS THAT MANY PEOPLE
ON COUNCIL HAVE RAISED ABOUT
WHAT COULD BE.
BUT THE WAY THAT I'M LOOKING AT
THIS IS THAT IT'S VERY BROAD
FOR MY COMFORT , PARTICULARLY
WHEN WE KNOW THAT THERE ARE
SEVERAL COMMUNITY NEEDS THAT WE
DON'T HAVE FUNDS I THINK TO
MOVE AS QUICKLY AS WE WOULD
LIKE TO.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, WE HAVE A
VISION ZERO GOAL IN TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE WHICH WE ARE THUS
FAR FAR FROM MEETING AND MUCH
WORK TO DO IN SPEED MANAGEMENT
SAFE CROSSWALKS AND TRAFFIC
CALMING AND YOU KNOW, SPEAKING
OUTSIDE OF TRANSIT I KNOW THAT
WE WANT TO MOVE FORWARD QUICKLY
WHEN OUR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
PASSES TO PUT IN PLACE THE
ZONING REFORMS THAT WILL MAKE
IT A REALITY AND SO I'M FEELING
LIKE, YOU KNOW, WE'RE NOT IN A
POSITION TO DECIDE TONIGHT HOW
TO BEST APPLY THIS ONE MILLION
DOLLARS.
BUT I'D PREFER THAT WE CONSIDER
THESE MONEYS IN THE NEW BUDGET
CYCLE, YOU KNOW, KNOWING THAT
IF SOMETHING EMERGES THAT WE
NEED TO RESPOND TO WE DO HAVE
FUNDS AND APPROACHED THIS IN A
MORE PLANFUL WAY AND THE COMING
MONTHS AS WE THINK ABOUT THE
BUDGET.
SO I WOULD PROPOSE TO REMOVE
THIS FROM THE CURRENT
RESOLUTION AN AMENDMENT TO
REMOVE THAT BULLET.
CORRECT.
IS THERE A SECOND ECONOMIC
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS COUNCIL
MEMBER ACRON YOU STOLE THE
FLOOR.
>> I THINK I SAID EVERYTHING
THAT I HAD TO SAY DISCUSSION
OF THE AMENDMENT COUNCIL
MEMBER.
WHAT I THINK I THINK IT'S
HELPFUL TO THINK OF AN
ANALOGOUS SITUATION AND ONE
OF THOSE WOULD BE WHEN SOME
OF THE SOVIET ERA EXPANSION IN
THE IN THE SOCIAL SAFETY
NETWORK LIKE THE FREEZE ON
EVICTIONS WHEN THAT WHEN
THEY'RE EXPANDING EXPANSION
ENDED.
>> WE HAD A SITUATION WHERE
IMMEDIATELY THERE WAS A LOT
MORE HOMELESSNESS AND THE CITY
ACTUALLY WAS CALLED UPON TO
ALLOCATE MORE MONEY.
IN THIS CASE IT WAS THREE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS TO
EVICTION PREVENTION AND THAT
DID, YOU KNOW, KEEP MANY
FAMILIES HOUSED DURING THAT
TIME.
AND I THINK IT'S WHILE WE CAN'T
SAY EXACTLY WHAT SITUATION IT
WOULD WOULD WOULD ARISE, THE
THE EFFECTS OF OF GAPS IN
FEDERAL FUNDING ON THESE VERY
SENSITIVE ISSUES WHERE YOU
KNOW, FAMILIES ARE HANGING ON
BY A THREAD WHERE ORGANIZATIONS
NEED TO FUND A STAFFER TO KEEP
THEIR DOORS OPEN.
YOU'VE ALREADY BEEN REACHED OUT
TO BY ORGANIZATIONS LIKE OZONE
HOUSESIT HAD SOME FEDERAL
FUNDING JUST STOPPED FROM THE
FACT THAT CONGRESS CAN'T
FINALIZE THEIR BUDGET.
>> SO I THINK THIS IS A GOOD
IT'S A GOOD IDEA TO KEEP THIS
MONEY EVEN IF WE CAN'T SPECIFY
BECAUSE I THINK WE KNOW THERE'S
GOING TO BE IMPACTS AND WE KNOW
THAT THEY HAPPEN QUICK COUNTS
MEMBER DENHA ON THE AMENDMENT.
THANK YOU.
I JUST HAVE A QUESTION FOR
STAFF ABOUT IF WE WERE TO
SIMPLY REMOVE THE BULLET POINT
AND NOT ALLOCATE THE MILLION
DOLLARS IN THIS WAY.
HOW WILL THIS MONEY BE TREATED
MOVING FORWARD?
THE MONEY WOULD SIMPLY GO BE
PART OF THE FUND BALANCE PART
OF THE REASON FOR WANTING AND
WE FEEL NEEDING TO BE PROACTIVE
IN THIS INSTANCE IS WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT A COMING
UNCERTAINTY AND WE DON'T KNOW
THE SPEED WITH WHICH IT WILL
COME AND SO IF SOMETHING COMES
QUICKLY AND COUNCIL WANTS TO
REACT QUICKLY, THE STAFF WOULD
BE POISED TO EASILY MANAGE
HOWEVER YOU WANT TO DIRECT THE
FUNDS BECAUSE IT'S SET UP WE
CAN TRACK WHERE IT GOES.
WE KNOW WHAT THE SEQUENCE WOULD
BE AS OPPOSED TO SCRAMBLING THE
MOMENT TRYING TO FIND FUNDS TO
DO A, B OR C THIS IS A MUCH
EASIER WAY TO DO IT
ADMINISTRATIVELY BUT WE WILL
RESPECT WHATEVER DECISION
COUNCIL MAKES.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
>> NO QUESTION SO CAN YOU SPEAK
TO THE MECHANICS OF HOW THIS IF
IT'S PASSED, HOW IT WOULD BE
USED, HOW WOULD COUNCIL TAKE
ACTION ON THE FUNDS AND IF WE
DIDN'T PASS IT WHAT WOULD
COUNCIL DO TO TAKE A SIMILAR
ACTION WITHOUT THE PRE
ALLOCATION?
>> THE FUNDING WOULD BE
DIRECTED BY COUNCIL RESOLUTION
ASKING THAT IT GO TO WHATEVER
WHATEVER YOU DEEM APPROPRIATE.
THE SYSTEM WOULD BE BOYS TO
IMMEDIATELY EXECUTE ON WHAT YOU
DIRECT DEPENDING ON WHAT THE
IDA B IS WITHOUT HAVING SOME
STRUCTURE AROUND IT INTERNALLY
THERE'S GOING TO BE WHAT SOURCE
DOES IT COME FROM AND WHAT THE
USE AND YOU KNOW IS THE MONEY
AVAILABLE ON A CERTAIN LINE
ITEM?
>> LET'S SAY YOU WANT TO DO
SOMETHING IN PARKS THERE IS A
WAY TO ADDRESS ALL OF THAT.
WE'RE SIMPLY WE WOULD SIMPLY BE
DOING IT IN A MORE BUREAUCRATIC
WAY.
IF YOU SAY WE'D RATHER DEAL
WITH THE ITEMS AS THEY COME UP
,WE CAN CERTAINLY ADDRESS IT
IN THAT MANNER.
WE JUST BELIEVE THAT DOING IT
THIS WAY IS MORE EFFICIENT AND
EASIER FOR YOU TO SIMPLY ASK US
TO TO TAP A LINE ITEM THAT
YOU'VE ALREADY APPROVED AND THE
MONEY IS NOT USED.
IT WOULD SIMPLY BE THERE FOR
ANOTHER PURPOSE, SIR I'M SORRY
COUNCILOR THAT YOU STOLE THE
FLOOR.
SO THE DEFINITION OF THIS
CATEGORY IS KIND OF AT THE
DISCRETION OF CITY COUNCIL KIND
OF AGREEING THAT SOMETHING FITS
WITHIN THAT CATEGORY.
THE FUNDING IS AVAILABLE FOR
COUNCIL.
IT'S NOT A IT'S NOT THAT SAY IT
THIS WAY.
IT WAS INCLUDED IN THE
RESOLUTION WITH THE INTENT
OF IT BEING AVAILABLE FOR
COUNCIL USE.
THE ADMINISTRATION WON'T BE
BRINGING ANY MEASURES TO SPEND
BUT OUR ROLE IS DIFFERENT FROM
OUR ROLE AND SO THAT'S WHY
WE'RE MAKING THE FUNDING
AVAILABLE TO YOU.
SO IT'S UP TO COUNCIL TO
DETERMINE WHAT HAPPENS IN THE
ONE OF THE REASONS COUNCIL
MEMBER RECOMMEND THAT THIS IS A
LITTLE MESSY.
>> WE DON'T REALLY KNOW THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
CAMPAIGN
RHETORIC AND OPERATIONS ONCE
YOU'RE RUNNING A GOVERNMENT.
SO IF THINGS COME REALLY
QUICKLY BECAUSE THERE'S BEEN A
NUMBER OF THINGS OUTLINED TO
HAPPEN ON DAY ONE WE WOULD BE
READY IF YOU WANT TO DO
SOMETHING, COUNCILOR, I
ACTUALLY JUST HAD MY QUESTION
ANSWERED SO I THINK YOU CAN
REMEMBER PLAYER CONTRACTS SO IT
STRIKES ME THAT THE ALLOCATION
OF A LINE ITEM IN THIS WAY
DOESN'T NECESSARILY PRECLUDE US
OR PRECLUDE ANY ONE COUNCIL
MEMBER FROM BRINGING FORWARD A
RESOLUTION TO USE IT FOR A
PURPOSE LIKE VISION ZERO OR
LIKE YOU KNOW, ANY OF THE OTHER
PRIORITIES THAT WE HAVE.
IT'S JUST PUTTING IT IN A LINE
ITEM AND KIND OF PUTTING IT IN
A IN A SENSE I DON'T WANT TO
SAY A LOCKBOX BUT IT JUST
PUTTING IT ASIDE AND KNOWING
THAT WE JUST I THINK BY TAKING
THIS VOTE IF IT PASSES THE
FEELING WOULD BE THAT WE JUST
KIND WANT TO HOLD OFF ON JUST
RUNNING OUT AND SPENDING IT AND
WAIT AND SEE WHAT SOME OF THE
IMPACTS MIGHT BE FROM THIS
REALLY, REALLY DANGEROUS
RHETORIC THAT'S COMING FROM THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
>> THE INCOMING ADMINISTRATION
THAT COULD HAVE SOME VERY
SERIOUS AND DEBILITATING LOCAL
IMPACTS.
>> SO I'M REALLY COMFORTABLE
WITH APPROACHING IT IN THIS
MANNER AS A MEMBER OF SO I GETS
VERY WISE THAT WE'RE PLANNING
FOR UNCERTAINTY.
THE QUESTION I HAVE THAT
UNCERTAINTY COULD HIT THE CITY
IN TERMS OF OUR OWN OPERATIONS
CERTAINLY AND ESPECIALLY IN
TERMS OF GRANTS WE MIGHT BE
EXPECTING THAT MIGHT NOT GET
EXECUTED ON OR FUNDING THAT HAS
BEEN DISCRETIONARY GRANT
FUNDING THAT HAS BEEN AVAILABLE
BUT IS IS SOON TO BE MADE THAT
MAY NOT OCCUR THIS NEXT
ADMINISTRATION WHICH I GUESS IS
ALWAYS ALWAYS A CHANGE ALWAYS
CAN HAPPEN WITH CHANGING
ADMINISTRATIONS BUT AND THEN
THERE ARE THE IMPACTS THAT
COULD HAPPEN TO COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATIONS.
I THINK WE'RE ALWAYS PREPARED
MUCH, MUCH BETTER PREPARED TO
ADDRESS ISSUES AFFECTING OUR
OWN ORGANIZATION.
WE HAVE A LESS CLEAR PROCESS
FOR EVALUATING THOSE REQUESTS
THAT COME IN FROM FROM SOCIAL
SERVICE AGENCIES.
WE HAVE FOUND IT DIFFICULT EVEN
BEING A PART OF A PARTNERSHIP
IN EVALUATING THOSE.
>> AND SO I THINK IT'S WE
SHOULD BE AWARE THAT IS THAT
SOMETHING THAT IF WE'RE
SUGGESTING HOW WE WANT TO USE
THESE FUNDS THAT THAT IS
POTENTIALLY A LITTLE BIT
CHALLENGING DOWN THE ROAD FOR
US.
BUT THE QUESTION HERE IS IF
WE'RE SETTING ASIDE THIS
MILLION DOLLARS AND MAYBE IT
GROWS, CAN WE ALSO WOULD STAFF
COME TO US WITH A REQUEST?
I WOULD HOPE STAFF WOULD COME
TO US WITH A REQUEST AND SAY
WE'VE HAD A BUDGETARY IMPACT
INTERNAL TO THE CITY AS WELL
THAT THAT IS RELATED TO THIS
ADMINISTRATION.
WE BELIEVE THAT THIS IS A GOOD
USE FOR THE FUNDS.
I'M CURIOUS HOW YOU RESPOND TO
THAT OR THINKING ABOUT THE
FIRST STEP WOULD BE FOR THE
ADMINISTRATION TO MAKE YOU
AWARE OF WHAT THE WHAT WE
PERCEIVE THE IMPACT TO BE.
>> WE MIGHT BE ABLE WE MIGHT
BRING YOU A SOLUTION THAT DOES
NOT INVOLVE THIS PARTICULAR ONE
MILLION DOLLARS BECAUSE THE
IDEA IS THAT THIS PARTICULAR
POT OF MONEY IS LOOKING OUTWARD
SO LET ME GIVE YOU AN EXAMPLE
FROM MY PRIOR LIFE.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT DECIDES THEY
WANT TO DO SWEEPS CITY I WORKED
IN SWEEP'S HAPPENED THERE WAS A
FEELING AMONG POLICYMAKERS THAT
IS THERE ANY WAY FOR THESE
PEOPLE TO GET ANY KIND OF LEGAL
REPRESENTATION?
THERE WAS A THOUGHT THAT
PERHAPS LEGAL AID MIGHT BE ABLE
TO HELP EVEN IF THEY WERE LOST
IN THE END THOUGH, HAVING
FUNDING TO GET TO LEGAL AID
IMMEDIATELY TO HELP WAS WAS
IMPORTANT.
BUT YOU HAVE TO MOVE FAST
BECAUSE LITERALLY PEOPLE ARE
BEING ROUNDED UP.
I'M NOT SAYING THAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN HERE BUT MY POINT IS
ANYTHING CAN HAPPEN.
>> THERE MIGHT BE SOME THINGS
THAT WE JUST HAVE TO LIVE WITH.
YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT'S SORT OF OUT THERE IS
THESE CLAW BACKS OF GRANTS THAT
HAVE PREVIOUSLY BEEN ALLOCATED
.
WE DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S TRUE OR
WE'LL JUST HAVE TO SEE AND IF
IT IS, MAYBE WE CAN DO
SOMETHING ABOUT IT OR MAYBE WE
JUST HAVE TO ACCEPT IT.
WE'RE SIMPLY TRYING TO BE AS
PREPARED AS WE POSSIBLY CAN FOR
THE UNCERTAINTY THAT WE WILL
START TO EXPERIENCE ON JANUARY
21ST.
AND AT THE SAME TIME I HAVE TO
SAY THIS IS A CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
WE WANT TO WORK WITH THE NEW
ADMINISTRATION WHEREVER WE CAN
IF THERE'S A MUTUAL ITEM, IF WE
WANT TO GO UP TO MORE GRANTS.
THIS IS NOT A NOT POLITICALLY.
THIS IS SIMPLY PREPARATION FOR
SOMETHING THAT MAY BE COMING TO
US RIGHT AFTER THE HOLIDAYS.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
IMMINENT ROLL CALL VOTE ON
AMENDMENT STARTING WITH COUNCIL
ON BRITISH
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
NO COUNCILOR HARRISON ABSENT
COUNCILOR WATSON NO NO MALIK NO
COUNCILOR DENHA NO COUNCILOR 01
NO MORE TAYLOR YEAH.
NO IA NO COUNCILOR AKMAN YES.
COUNCILOR BRIGGS NO TOLSTOI
CORNELL MOTION FAILS FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN MOTION
AS AMENDED COUNCILOR LIKE TO
TALK PERKING AQUILINA AND I
APPRECIATE THE ADMINISTRATORS
RESPONSE ABOUT THE CONTEXT FOR
THIS BECAUSE I TRULY DID NOT
KNOW WHAT IT MEANT WHEN I READ
IT.
BUT BASICALLY IT SOUNDS LIKE
THERE'S SOME DISPARITY WITH
REGARD TO HOW WE SUBSIDIZE
PARKING WITHIN THE CITY AND
THAT THAT HAS BEEN A SOURCE
OF PAIN INTERNALLY FOR A WHILE
.
YOU KNOW, WE WANT THIS TO BE A
GOOD PLACE TO WORK AND I
UNDERSTAND ALL THAT.
HOWEVER, I DO THINK WITHOUT
HAVING A PLAN IN FRONT OF US
AND AS I UNDERSTAND IT, THERE'S
A COMMITTEE MEETING AND
DEVELOPING RECOMMENDATIONS.
YOU KNOW, I DON'T THINK THAT WE
SHOULD BE SETTING ASIDE MONEY
FOR THIS PROGRAM.
I ALSO HOPE TO SEE SOMETHING
ALONG THE LINES OF A CASH OUT
PROGRAM.
THIS IS HIGHLIGHTED IN OUR
TRANSPORTATION PLAN AS AN
APPROACH.
I UNDERSTAND THAT WE ARE TRYING
TO ENGAGE WITH THIS PROCESS ON
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
SO THAT IS KIND OF THAT'S MY
PERSPECTIVE ON THAT.
AND SO I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO
MOVE THAT WE REMOVE THIS LINE
ITEM BY NO BREAKS WHEN YOU STOP
THE FLOOR.
SO I GUESS I'LL SAY A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT HOW THIS WORKS.
SO CITY LEVEL PARKING CASH OUT
IS BASICALLY A COMMUTER BENEFIT
WHERE EMPLOYERS THAT PROVIDE
FREE OR SUBSIDIZED PARKING AT
WORK ALSO OFFER EMPLOYEES THE
OPTION TO TAKE AN EQUIVALENT
CASH PAYMENT OR TAX FREE
TRANSIT VAN POOL BENEFIT OR
COMBINATION OF CASH PAYMENT AND
TAX FREE BENEFIT INSTEAD OF THE
PARKING SUBSIDY.
OTHER CITIES ARE DOING THIS AND
IT'S CONSIDERED A VERY
REASONABLE APPROACH TO
IMPACTING PARKING DEMAND FOR
THE DISCUSSION OF THE MOMENT.
YEAH, I'M VERY SUPPORTIVE THIS
PROPOSAL THAT AT LEAST PULL
THIS OUT OF OUR DISCUSSIONS
TONIGHT I THINK WE CAN
CERTAINLY THE ADMINISTRATION
CAN BRING BACK A RECOMMENDATION
TO US IN THE NEW YEAR IF ONCE
THAT COMMITTEE HAS MET AND WE
CAN CONSIDER UNDER THOSE
CIRCUMSTANCES CERTAINLY I TOO
WOULD ALSO BE MUCH MORE
INTERESTED IN SEEING A PARKING
CASH OUT PROGRAM EVERY CITY
EMPLOYEE IS PROVIDED A GO PASS
WHICH PROVIDES THEM THE ABILITY
TO TO UTILIZE TRANSIT FOR FREE
AND I THINK THAT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT IT'S A GREAT
BENEFIT.
I WOULD HOPE THAT WE ALSO GIVE
EVERYBODY THE SAME BENEFIT IN
THE CITY AND THAT IS IF THEY
CHOOSE TO USE THAT BENEFIT FOR
TO SUBSIDIZE THEIR PARKING,
THAT'S ENTIRELY THEIR CHOICE IF
THEY CHOOSE TO USE IT TO BUY
MORE GROCERIES, THAT'S GREAT
TOO.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, I'M SURE THAT
THERE ARE CHALLENGES WITH THIS
TO SOME DEGREE IN TERMS OF HOW
THE DIFFERENT CONTRACTS ARE SET
UP INTERNALLY IN THE CITY.
BUT I'D LOVE TO SEE THAT COME
TO US AT A FUTURE POINT WITH
WHAT WE CAN UNDERSTAND WHAT'S
BEEN ASKED OF US FURTHER
DISCUSSION FOR MY PART
APPRECIATING THE ATTRACTIVENESS
OF A CASH OUT STRUCTURE.
THAT'S NOT WHAT WE HAVE
PRESENTLY.
AND SO I'M GOING TO DECLINE FOR
MY PART TO PLAY THE AMENDMENT
SUPPORTING THE ADMINISTRATORS
EFFORTS TO EQUALIZE BENEFITS TO
TO STAFF MEMBERS IN THE IN THE
HERE AND NOW UNDERSTANDING THAT
WE MIGHT TAKE A DIFFERENT PATH
DOWNSTREAM, FURTHER DISCUSSION
WAS THAT
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE
STAFF COUNCIL MEMBER STATION
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH NO
COUNCILOR HARRISON ABSENT
COUNCILOR WATSON NO COUNCILOR
MALIK YES.
COMES FROM DENHA NO COUNCIL
MEMBER HAD ONE NO MAYOR TAYLOR
NO COUNCILOR ER NO COMES FROM
AKMAN YES COUNCILOR BRIGGS YES.
>> COMES FROM CORNELL YES.
MOTION FAILS FURTHER DISCUSSION
THE MINISTER'S AMENDED COUNCIL
MEMBER BRINGS THINGS.
I WOULD LIKE TO ADD A BULLET
POINT TO THIS LIST.
I'D LIKE TO SUGGEST THAT WE ADD
NINETY THOUSAND DOLLARS NINETY
THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED DOLLARS
TO FOUR TRAFFIC CALMING.
WE SAW THE RESPONSE MEMO THAT
WE HAVE A LONG QUEUE
OF NECESSARY TRAFFIC COMING
PROJECTS THAT WE HAVE HAD
STAGNATED AND SO THIS WOULD
HELP US.
THIS IS FUNDING THAT STAFF HAS
SUGGESTED THAT THEY COULD USE
THIS YEAR TO CONTINUE TO
EXPEDITE THOSE THOSE PROJECTS
MOVING FORWARD.
>> WE DON'T HAVE THE FUNDING
AVAILABLE IN THE EXISTING FUNDS
THAT WOULD TYPICALLY BE
UTILIZED FROM SO THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO ADVANCE SOME
OF OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES NOW
THAT WE HAVE A LITTLE BIT
OF EXTRA REVENUE SECONDED BY
COUNCILOR CORNELL COUNCILOR
BRIDGES THE FLOOR FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL DENHA DISH I
GUESS THIS IS MAYBE A QUESTION
FOR MY COUNCIL COLLEAGUE IF
YOU'RE PROPOSING IN ADDITION,
ARE YOU ALSO PROPOSING CUTS
SOMEWHERE ELSE IN THE
RESOLUTION OR WHERE IS THE
ADDITIONAL NINETEEN THOUSAND
DOLLARS COMING FROM?
I THINK SO IN STEPH WHEN ASKING
THE QUESTION MY UNDERSTANDING
IS THAT WE WOULD STILL HAVE
EVEN WITH THIS ADDITIONAL
ALLOCATION WE WOULD STILL HAVE
A TWENTY TWO PERCENT GENERAL
FUND RESERVE AND SO IT'S STILL
ABOVE OUR YOU KNOW WE HAVE WE
HAVE EXCESS MORE FUNDING THAN
WE ANTICIPATE AT THIS POINT
OF VIEW.
THIS WOULD STILL BRING US ABOVE
THE TWENTY PERCENT BASE THAT WE
WANT TO SEE.
I HAD ANTICIPATED THAT SOME
OF THOSE OTHER AMENDMENTS
PERHAPS INACCURATE BUT
REGARDLESS I STILL THINK THIS
IS A STRONG PRIORITY TO FOR
CLARITY THE AMOUNT WAS NINETY
THOUSAND NINETY THOUSAND FOUR
HUNDRED FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL WE DENHA THE DISH YOU
KNOW THE JURY DISH.
>> THANK YOU.
MY APOLOGIES.
YEAH I MEANT TO JUST SAY THAT I
WAS GOING TO ASK THE QUESTION
THE COUNCIL MEMBER WAS DENHA
ASKED AND SO THAT'S FINE.
>> I'M GOOD FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT
PLEASE.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE I'M
UNDERSTANDING IS THE NINETY
THOUSAND FOR A SPECIFIC PROJECT
THAT WOULD BE DONE RIGHT NOW.
IS THAT WHAT WE'RE DOING
?
LET ME GET BACK TO THE PORTION
OF THE EMAIL THAT HAD ALL THE
INFORMATION THAT
KNOW THE TIME.
YEAH,
IT IS IN THE AGENDA
THAT'S I WAS JUST NOT PUMPING
UP IN FRONT OF ME
BUT IT IS FOR
A SPECIFIC PROJECT.
SO THERE ARE ACCORDING TO THE
RESPONSE THERE ARE TWENTY
PROJECTS IN YOU SIX AWAITING
CONSTRUCTION, THREE STARTING
ENGAGEMENT AND THIRTEEN
AWAITING PETITION REVIEW AND
ADDITIONAL FUNDING AMOUNT
OF NINETY THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED
DOLLARS SIXTY EIGHT THOUSAND
FOUR HUNDRED TO CLEAR
CONSTRUCTION PLUS TWENTY TWO
THOUSAND FOR PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
COULD BE UTILIZED.
SO STAFF ALSO NOTED THAT THEY
WOULD RECOMMEND USING A FUNDING
SOURCE OUTSIDE OF THE GENERAL
FUND TO COVER THE POTENTIAL
BUDGET INCREASE.
>> I ASKED FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS
SURROUNDING THAT AS TO DID WE
HAVE THAT AVAILABLE THAT
FUNDING AVAILABLE AND THERE
ISN'T IN THOSE OTHER BUDGET
ITEMS SINCE WE ARE SEEING A YOU
KNOW, A MORE GREATER SURPLUS
THAN WE ANTICIPATE AT THIS
POINT IN YEAR, THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT WE'VE HEARD A
FAIR AMOUNT CERTAINLY IN THE
FIFTH WARD IN THE CITY THIS
YEAR AROUND THE DESIRE TO SEE
THESE TRAFFIC COMING PROJECTS
MOVE FORWARD AND YOU KNOW
SOMETHING AROUND BUDGET TIME
THAT I WAS YOU KNOW, I JUST
THINK IT'S A GOOD GOOD YEAR
MIDYEAR GOOD MIDCOURSE
CORRECTION COUNCILOR DENHA
THANK YOU.
I THINK WELL I ABSOLUTELY
SUPPORT THE EFFORT TO EXPEDITE
SOME OF OUR TRAFFIC COMING
EFFORTS.
I THINK I'M JUST A LITTLE THIS
FEELS A LITTLE OUTSIDE NORMAL
LIKE THIS FEELS LIKE SOMETHING
WE COULD ADDRESS AS PART OF OUR
UPCOMING BUDGET PROCESS INSTEAD
OF REALLOCATING FROM THE
GENERAL FROM THE THE FUND
BALANCE NOW RATHER THAN THE
EXCESS.
I GUESS I'M STILL STRUGGLING A
LITTLE BIT TO SEE WHERE THIS
FITS WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF THIS
RESOLUTION.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
AMENDMENT COUNCILOR.
I GUESS I'LL JUST SAY FOR MY
PART I WAS HOPING THAT WE WOULD
REAPPLY THE PARKING EQUITY
MONEY TO SPEED UP OUR TRAFFIC
COMING AND ADDRESS THE
CROSSWALK ISSUES.
SO THAT WAS KIND OF MY PLAN.
BUT THAT FAILED SO JUST TO
RECONSIDER I THINK WHAT COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGGS IS SUGGESTING IS
SOMETHING THAT JUST DOES NOT
HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON
WHAT OUR ENDING FUND BALANCE
WILL STILL BE IF THIS WAS
APPLIED IN ADDITION TO IF I'M
UNDERSTANDING CORRECTLY
COUNCILOR MELLET, I HAVE A
QUESTION EITHER FOR MR
MCCORMICK OR ADMINISTRATOR
TONY.
IT WAS MENTIONED EARLIER THAT
BY PREFUNDING SOME PROJECTS
MOVING THEM FORWARD IT COULD
JEOPARDIZE FUTURE GRANT FUNDS
TO OUR KNOWLEDGE TONIGHT IS
THERE ANY IF WE WERE TO
ALLOCATE THIS 90000 TONIGHT, IS
THERE ANY CHANCE THAT THIS
WOULD POTENTIALLY JEOPARDIZE
ANY ANY FUTURE FUNDING FOR 26
OR WHATEVER THE CASE WAS
EARLIER TONIGHT?
SO THIS REALLY GOES TO THERE
ARE PROJECTS THAT WE HAD IN
THAT LIST THAT REALLY PRIME
CANDIDATES FOR THE KINDS
OF GRANT FUNDING THAT WE CAN
PURSUE.
AND SO IN OUR CALENDAR WE HAVE
SAID WE'VE OUTLINED PROJECTS TO
PURSUE GRANT FUNDING FOR TWENTY
SIX TWENTY SEVEN AND OTHERS
THAT COULD BE ALIGNED WITH
FUTURE CAPITAL PROJECTS.
AND SO OUR STRATEGY FOR FUNDING
IS REALLY ABOUT WHERE CAN WE
GET GRANTS AND LIKELY BE
SUCCESSFUL IN PURSUING THEM?
WHERE SHOULD WE LOSE USE OUR
LOCAL MONEY AND THEN LOOKING AT
THE PRIORITIES THEN SAYING WHAT
CAN BE DONE, WHAT SHOULD BE
DONE IN THE NEXT YEAR WITH
LOCAL FUNDS, WHAT COULD BE
CONSIDERED FOR A SUBSEQUENT
YEAR IF WE ARE SUCCESSFUL AT
GETTING GRANT FUND
APPLICATIONS?
AND SO THAT'S THAT'S HOW WE'VE
ORDERED THE CALENDAR.
SO WHAT I SAID IS YES, WE COULD
FOR TWENTY SEVEN PULL FORWARD
PROJECTS TO TWENTY SIX THAT WE
WOULD FUND WITH LOCAL STREETS
THAT WOULD YOU KNOW THAT WOULD
FREE UP THAT LOCAL STREET MONEY
FOR THAT YEAR.
BUT RIGHT NOW THE PROJECTS THAT
WE'VE IDENTIFIED IF WE ARE
GOING TO DO ANY OF THEM THAT
ARE ON THE LIST WE'D BE SAYING
WE'RE DOING THAT IN LIEU
OF PURSUING GRANT MONEY SO WE'D
BE USING THAT THAT LOCAL STREET
MONEY LESS EFFECTIVELY THAN WE
CAN IF WE PURSUE GRANTS THAT
THAT WAS MY RESPONSE.
MALIKI'S TO THE FLOOR NOW
WATSON IS IS JUST I THINK YOU
MIGHT HAVE PARTIALLY ANSWERED
THIS BUT BUT WHAT IS THE REASON
YOU'RE SUGGESTING USING THE
FUNDING SOURCE OUTSIDE OF THE
GENERAL FUND?
DOES IT HAVE TO DO WITH THE
GRANTS OR IS THERE ANOTHER
REASON THAT WE DON'T WANT TO
USE THE GENERAL FUND MONEYS WE
HAVE USE A SERVICE FOR GENERAL
WE DON'T USE GENERAL FUND
MONEYS FOR FOR FUNDING STREETS
THAT COMES OUT OF OUR STREET
MILLAGE OR IT WILL COME OUT
OF YOU KNOW, OTHER FUNDS THAT
WE RECEIVE FROM THE STATE JUST
SUBSIDIZE BUT NOT GENERALLY OUT
OF THE GENERAL FUND IF THIS IS
CONSIDERED PERHAPS A LIKE A ONE
TIME USAGE OF GENERAL FUND,
DOES THAT CHANGE ANYTHING OR IS
IT JUST THE IT'S JUST NOT
SOMETHING THAT WE WOULD
GENERALLY SAY IS OF A
SIGNIFICANT ADVANTAGE AGAIN
BECAUSE WE WOULD STILL BE
LOOKING TO PURSUE THOSE FUNDS.
WE WOULD NOT PLUG GENERAL FUND
MONEY INTO TO CAUSE A DEFERRAL
OF APPLYING FOR GRANT MONIES.
I MEAN TO US IT DOESN'T MAKE
SENSE BUT IT'S CERTAINLY
COUNCIL'S DISCRETION.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE
CLARIFICATION AKMAN.
>> I GUESS I'M A LITTLE BIT
LOST BASED ON THE STAFF
RESPONSE TO THIS QUESTION
WHETHER IT WAS NOTED THAT
TRAFFIC CALMING IS FUNDED
THROUGH THE COUNTY MENTAL
HEALTH MILLAGE SO I DON'T THINK
GRANT FUNDS EVER APPLY TO THIS
CATEGORY OF WORK THAT I'M AWARE
OF .
>> AM I MISTAKEN THE PROJECTS
THAT WE WERE TALKING ABOUT WERE
NOT TRAFFIC PROJECTS WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT THE ROAD MILEAGE,
THE CROSSWALK IMPROVEMENT
PRIORITIZATION.
THIS IS SEPARATE TO MAKE SURE
MAYBE I CONFUSED YOUR QUESTION
TRAFFIC.
YEAH, THIS WAS TO THE TRAFFIC
COMING OH I'M SORRY PROJECTS IN
THE QUEUE SIX ARE WAITING
CONSTRUCTION BUSINESS FOR
COMMENT STREET STREET
NEIGHBORHOODS WILL BE PUBLIC
STREETS AGAIN THAT'S THAT'S
COUNCIL'S DISCRETION TO DO THAT
.
WE'VE NOT TYPICALLY DONE THIS
SO I JUST GUESS I WANT TO
FINISH TO CLARIFY NO.
JUST BECAUSE PEOPLE WERE ASKING
I THINK WHAT WE'RE SAYING IS NO
GRANT FUNDS ARE THREATENED BY
DOING THIS BECAUSE THEY DON'T
APPLY TO THIS CATEGORY OF WORK
TRAFFIC COMING.
>> IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING I ALSO
LIKE I GUESS WOULD POINT OUT
THAT IN TRAFFIC CALMING THERE'S
REALLY TWO PIECES OF IT AND I'M
SURE COUNCIL IS WELL AWARE
OF THIS.
THE PEOPLE IN QUEUE ARE WAITING
TO SEE WHETHER OR NOT THEY
QUALIFY.
AND WHAT I'M HEARING IS YOU
WOULD PUT MORE DOLLARS INTO
QUALIFIED MAKING QUALIFICATION
DETERMINATIONS BECAUSE THE SUM
THAT I HEAR YOU SPEAKING TO IS
NOT A LARGE SUM OF MONEY FOR
MOVING TRAFFIC CALMING
CONSTRUCTION FORWARD WHICH IS
AN ENTIRELY DIFFERENT ISSUE
TRAFFIC CALMING ON OUR RESPONSE
IS GENERALLY PRETTY TIMELY BUT
WHERE WE HAVE AN ISSUE IN
BACKLOG OUR CONSTRUCTION
DOLLARS
FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH YEAH I I
HAVE BEEN SO PLEASED THAT WE
WERE ABLE TO MOVE MORE TRAFFIC
CALMING PROJECTS FORWARD
BECAUSE THE WAITING WAS NUTI
AND THIS I SEE THIS AS A
PRIORITY BUT I'M BUT I'M
WONDERING I'M SURE THAT WE HAVE
MANY PRIORITIES THAT WE WANT TO
ADDRESS IN THIS BUDGET TERM AND
SO I'M NOT SURE WHY TO PUT THIS
ONE.
I THINK I'M SAYING THE SAME
THING THAT A COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA SAID BUT I'M NOT SURE WHY
TO PUT THIS ONE NOW GIVEN YOU
KNOW, JUST I MEAN CAN WE WAIT A
FEW MONTHS AND THROW SOME MORE
MONEY AT IT THEN?
YEAH.
COUNCILOR THANK YOU AND YEAH I
I GUESS I'M KIND OF A COUNCIL
MEMBER DESHA SENTIMENT'S I
DEFINITELY AGREE WITH TRAFFIC
CALMING.
I WANT IT IT'S NEEDED THERE'S A
HUGE QUEUE BUT I WOULD I WOULD
JUST LIKE MORE INFORMATION
ABOUT KIND OF THE IMPACT TO THE
GENERAL FUND AND ALSO
POTENTIALLY DISCUSSING WITH ALL
OF YOU WHAT OTHER THINGS MIGHT
BE PART OF THAT GETTING MORE
CLARIFICATION ON SIDEWALKS
ARGUABLY TRAFFIC CALMING, SNOW
REMOVAL ON SIDEWALKS, PRESSING
ISSUE WITH WINTER.
>> I WOULD LOVE THE OPPORTUNITY
TO LEARN MORE ALTHOUGH I DO
SUPPORT THAT GOAL.
>> I'M AFRAID YOU'VE HAD YOUR
TOO ON AMENDMENT NO SHAME IN IT
AS I AS I HEARD THE ANSWERS TO
THE QUESTIONS THIS THIS CHANGE
WOULD NOT IMPERIL FUTURE GRANT
DOLLARS BUT IT MIGHT USE LOCAL
DOLLARS PRIOR TO AH SEEKING
GRANT DOLLARS IS THAT THAT I MY
MIXING AND MATCHING NO I
BELIEVE I MISUNDERSTOOD THE
QUESTION.
>> OK SO THAT'S A LOGICAL WHAT
YOU SAID THAT THE GOT IT BUT
THEN THEY ALSO WHAT I ALSO HEAR
IS THAT MAYBE MAYBE I GOT THIS
ONE RIGHT THAT THIS CHANGE WILL
NOT ACCELERATE CONSTRUCTION
THIS CHANGE WILL ACCELERATE
REVIEW CORRECT AND THE
CONSTRUCT AND AS AN
IMPLEMENTATION OF TRAFFIC
COMING FROM OUR IS MORE OF A
CONSTRUCTION BOTTLENECK
CONSTRUCTION BOTTLENECK RATHER
THAN A REVIEW BOTTLENECK.
THAT'S CORRECT.
SO THAT THIS CHANGE WILL NOT
ACCELERATE THE CONSTRUCTION
OF TRAFFIC COMING.
THAT'S CORRECT.
OK, BEARING THAT IN MIND THANK
YOU AND UNDERSTANDING THAT
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT I WANT OH
I THINK I'M WELL MR DOYLE,
HERE'S SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
I'M GOING TO DECLINE THE
AMENDMENT BUT WANT TO HAVE US
DO MORE ON TRAFFIC COMING SO
THAT WE CAN ROLL IT OUT THE
DOOR.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON THE
AMENDMENT ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE
START WITH CONCENTRATION
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH NO
COUNCILOR HARRISON APSA
CUSTOMER WATSON YES ELSEWHERE
MALLOCK NO COUNCILOR DENHA NO
COUNCILOR GARCIA NO MAYOR
TAYLOR NO COUNCILOR IHR OH NO
IT COMES FROM ACKMANN YES.
COUNCILOR BRIGGS YES COUNCILOR
CORNELL YES.
>> MOTION FAILS FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN MOTION
AS AMENDED THAT'S I BRIGS NO
MORE AMENDMENT THAT JUST
BECAUSE I WANTED TO SAY
SOMETHING DIDN'T HAVE ANY MORE
TIME ACCORDING TO THE RESPONSE
MEMO THERE ARE SIX PROJECTS
AWAITING CONSTRUCTION THAT ARE
STILL SO IT WOULD HAVE
EXPEDITED THINGS A COURT BASED
ON WHAT I WAS READING THAT'S
WHAT I WAS THAT'S WHERE I I
THOUGHT WE WERE GOING TO BE
ABLE TO ACCELERATE SOMETHING.
SO MAYBE MAYBE I'M
MISUNDERSTANDING IT THROUGH
SOMETHING THROUGH THE MEMO THAT
IS THAT IS A FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
THE MAIN MOTIONS AMENDMENT I
WILL OBSERVE THAT THE AMOUNT
HAS INCREASED FROM TWO MILLION
750000 TO MILLION 850000 AS A
RESULT OF THE LCS CAN HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO AMEND THAT
POSITION BY COUNCILOR DISH
SECOND I COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
I ASSUME THAT'S FAVORABLE.
IT'S FRIENDLY RATHER BRIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
THE MAIN MOTION I'LL JUST AGAIN
LIKE TO EXPRESS GRATITUDE TO
THE ADMINISTRATOR FOR UTILIZING
FORESIGHT TO HAVE THIS SET
OF APPLICATIONS PRESENTED TO US
GRATITUDE TO STAFF FOR HELPING
US HAVE A CITY THAT IS ON A
SOUND FINANCIAL FOOTING AND
GRATITUDE TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY FOR HELPING US ALONG
GROWTH ALL SUCCESSFUL CITIES
GROW.
WE ARE IN WE HAVE A AAA BOND
RATING.
WE HAVE A SUCCESSFUL FINANCIAL
POSITION AND THAT IS IN NO
SMALL MEASURE AS A RESULT
OF STAFF'S PRUDENCE, THIS
COUNCIL'S PRUDENCE AND ALSO THE
VISION OF COUNCIL OF COMMUNITY
TO EMBRACE EMBRACING COMMUNITY
THAT THAT GROWS FURTHER
DISCUSSION ROLL-CALL VOTE.
>> PLEASE START WITH COUNCILOR
TISH COUNCIL MEMBER DISH YES
COUNCILOR HARRISON ABSENT
COUNCILOR WATSON.
YES SIR.
MALIK YES.
COUNCILOR EDINA YES.
CUSTOMER MARKAZI YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
COUNCILOR ER YES COUNCILOR
ACKMANN.
NO NO BRIGS YES.
>> COUNCILOR CORNELL YES.
MOTION CARRIES WE NOW COME TO A
PUBLIC HEARING.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK ACCOUNTS
TO THE COMMUNITY ABOUT THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK AT A
PUBLIC HEARING ONE NEED NOT
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BUT
YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS TO SAY A
SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO
WHICH THE PUBLIC HEARING
RELATES SPEAKERS IN ALL
INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS.
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME'S
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE REMARKS
AND THE FLOOR PUBLIC HEARING
NUMBER ONE AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTION FIVE THAT ONE FIVE AND
5.1 SIX OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED CODE TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY BANABA
PERMITTED USE TABLES FOR
CHILDCARE CENTER AND PRIVATE
SCHOOL USES AND USE SPECIFIC
STANDARDS FOR CHILD CARE CENTER
USES.
IS THERE ANYONE IN THE HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE I'D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON
LINE WITH YOUR HANDS UP
SEE NO.
>> IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED A ONE WE HAVE A FORCED A
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES
OF DECEMBER TO TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR MOVE BY THEY HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE MINUTES
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES WELL FAVOR POSED
MINUTES ARE APPROVED BY ONE IN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION 5.1
FIVE AND FIVE THAT ONE SIXTH
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
THE CODE OF THE CITY OF ADEN
HARBOR PERMIT AND USE TABLES
OF FOUR CHILD CARE CENTER AND
PRIVATE SCHOOL USES AND USE
SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR CHILD
CARE CENTER USES MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH BY COUNCIL
MEMBER VIA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF BE1 COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
AS I SAID ABOUT A MONTH AGO I'M
REALLY HAPPY TO SEE THIS ON THE
AGENDA SO QUICKLY.
THIS IS MOVING FORWARD OUR
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND
AS THE MAYOR JUST SAID, THE
ZONING CHANGE AFFECTS BOTH
CHILD CARE CENTERS AND PRIVATE
SCHOOLS WANT TO FOCUS ON CHILD
CARE CENTERS, CHANGING CHILD
CARE CENTERS TO BE A PERMITTED
USE IN SINGLE FAMILY AND TO
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SEEING THEM AS A PERMITTED USE
IN RESEARCH AND OFFICE LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS WHERE THEY
WERE PERMITTED PRIOR TO 2019 IS
A RESPONSE TO A STARK DEFICIT
OF CHILD CARE IN WASHTENAW
COUNTY.
>> IT'S ALSO A RECOGNITION THAT
THE DEVELOPMENT OF A CHILD CARE
CENTER IS A SPECIAL KIND
OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
CHILD CARE CENTERS ARE THE
BUILDING BLOCKS OF ECONOMIC
ACTIVITY.
THE CHILD CARE BUSINESS MAKES
ALL T OTHER BUSINESSES GO AND
WITHOUT IT OTHER ECONOMIC
ACTIVITY IS REDUCED.
EVERYONE WHO HAS A CHILD IS NOT
LOVING IT OR WAS A CHILD.
A REPORT BY THE LIVINGSTON
WATCHING CHILD CARE PLANNING
COALITION FINDS THAT THERE IS
ONLY ONE LICENSED CHILD CARE
SLOT FOR EVERY EIGHT CHILDREN
UNDER FIVE.
THAT KIND OF SCARCITY MAKES OUR
REGION ONE OF THE MOST
EXPENSIVE CHILD CARE REGION IN
THE STATE.
CENTER BASED CARE FOR INFANTS
AND TODDLERS COSTS AS MUCH AS
FOURTEEN FOURTEEN THOUSAND
DOLLARS PER YEAR.
CHILD CARE SCARCITY DOES
STARTLING DAMAGE TO THE ECONOMY
.
A REPORT BY THE MICHIGAN
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE STATES THAT
INSTABILITY OR LACK OF CHILD
CARE RESULTS IN AN ALMOST THREE
BILLION DOLLAR ANNUAL LOSS FOR
THE MICHIGAN ECONOMY AND THAT'S
A LOSS OF OVER HALF A MILLION
DOLLARS IN TAX REVENUES FOR
MUNICIPALITIES.
SO THAT'S SIGNIFICANT FOR US AS
WELL.
RIGHT NOW WE'RE LEAVING
FAMILIES TO BEAR THE COSTS
ASSOCIATED WITH CHILD CARE
SCARCITY ON THEIR OWN.
THEY ARE SPENDING A RAINY DAY
FUNDS ON CHILD CARE OR
DEPLETING THE NEST EGG THEY
MIGHT HAVE BEEN HOPING TO
INVEST IN HOME OWNERSHIP OR
THEY MAY BE CUTTING BACK ON
THEIR WORK HOURS.
THIS ISN'T FAIR.
WE ALL BENEFIT FROM ROBUST
ECONOMIC ACTIVITY.
>> MOREOVER, THIS IS NOT A
SMALL CHANGE.
>> THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
PROCESS IS COSTLY.
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF APPLE
PLAYSKOOL WHO BROUGHT THIS
AMENDMENT PETITION TO US
REPORTS PAYING OVER TWENTY
THREE THOUSAND DOLLARS IN FEES
AND EXPENSES RELATED SOLELY TO
COMPLYING WITH THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION FOR USE AND SIDELINE
PROCESSES.
THEY HAVE ALSO INCURRED OVER
90000 DOLLARS IN LOST REVENUE
DUE TO A SEVEN MONTH DELAY IN
OPENING THEIR NEW CENTER WHICH
WILL NOW HOPEFULLY OPEN IN
MARCH.
SO THINK ABOUT THE IMPACT ON
FAMILIES WHO ARE COUNTING ON
THESE NEW CHILDCARE SLOTS TO BE
ABLE TO GET BACK TO WORK.
OUR YES VOTE TONIGHT WILL MAKE
IT EASIER FOR CHILDCARE
PROVIDERS TO PROVIDE CHILD CARE
AND EASIER FOR THE FAMILIES WHO
NEED THEM.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR JOINING ME
COUNCIL MEMBER IHR THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH HAS JUST
VERY ELOQUENTLY SPOKEN TO THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IMPACT SO
THANK YOU.
>> I WON'T GO OVER THAT.
I WILL JUST SIMPLY SAY THAT I
AM I AM SO SUPPORTIVE OF THIS
BECAUSE WE HAVE A DEARTH
OF CHILD CARE CENTERS AND I
VIEW THIS AS GENTIL DENSITY FOR
CHILD CARE ALLOWING IT IN
NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE YOU CAN
HAVE A SMALL HOME BASED CENTER.
MY DAUGHTER WENT FROM AGES ONE
TO THREE, WENT TO ONE IN THE
DICKIN NEIGHBORHOOD AND NOW I'M
WONDERING HOW THAT WAS
POSSIBLE.
>> BUT IT'S LONG BEEN THE
WONDERFUL COUPLE THE OLDER
COUPLE WHO I'M NOW REALIZING
ARE PROBABLY WE'RE PROBABLY MY
AGE AT THE TIME I HAVE HAVE
LONG SINCE RETIRED BUT IT WAS
AN IDYLLIC EXPERIENCE IS MY
POINT AND WE COULD WALK THERE
AND WALK HOME.
>> IT WAS A HOME BASED FEEL
JUST A YOU KNOW, LESS THAN A
DOZEN KIDS MORE AFFORDABLE THAN
THE BIG CENTERS AND THE
ALLOWING THIS AND HOPEFULLY
SEEING THEM PROLIFERATE IN
NEIGHBORHOODS WOULD BE WOULD
JUST MAKE SUCH A HUGE IMPACT TO
OUR LOCAL CHILD CARE NEEDS AS A
COMMUNITY.
>> SO I SUPPORT IT.
>> YES.
OVER KORDELL I THINK COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH AND COUNCIL MEMBERS
AND I COVERED A LOT OF THE
POINTS.
I WANT TO THROW OUT A COUPLE
MORE STATS IS THAT FIFTY NINE
PERCENT OF WORKING FAMILIES IN
WASHINGTON LOVINGSTON COUNTIES
DO NOT HAVE ACCESS TO CHILD
CARE.
THAT'S AN INCREDIBLE AMOUNT AND
THERE ARE SEVEN AND A HALF
TIMES MORE CHILDREN IN NEED
OF CHILD CARE THAN IS ACTUALLY
AVAILABLE RIGHT NOW.
THAT'S SEVEN AND A HALF TIMES.
SO THIS IS THIS IS A PRETTY
HUGE PROBLEM I THINK FROM
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STANDPOINT
MY COLLEAGUES COVERED THE
POINTS VERY WELL.
BUT JUST AS A WORKING MOM I
WILL SAY BEING ABLE TO HAVE
WHEN MY CHILDREN NEEDED CHILD
CARE AT THAT AGE TO HAVE HAD AN
OPTION EITHER IN AN OFFICE
CENTER WHERE I WORK AND OR IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE WE LIVED
WOULD HAVE CONTRIBUTED
SIGNIFICANTLY TO QUALITY
OF LIFE, CUTTING DOWN ON TIME,
HAVING TO RUN AROUND THE KIDS,
HAVING TO MAKE SURE YOU'RE
THERE BEFORE TIME.
YOU KNOW, COUNTING AND TRAFFIC
AND THINGS LIKE THAT EVERY
MINUTE I THINK THAT WE CAN MAKE
IT SO THAT WORKING PARENTS CAN
WORK BUT THEN ALSO BALANCE OUT
THE TIME THAT THEY WANT WITH
THEIR CHILDREN.
I CAN'T IMAGINE A BETTER USE
OF OUR TIME AND OUR ENERGY AND
I'M JUST SO THRILLED TO SUPPORT
THIS TONIGHT COUNCIL MEMBER
BRAKE'S I AM ALSO VERY EXCITED
TO SEE US DOING WHAT WE CAN TO
MAKE IT EASIER TO OPEN UP CHILD
CARE CENTERS AND ACROSS THE
CITY.
I DO HAVE A QUESTION.
I APOLOGIZE.
I DID NOT ASK ANY ABOUT ANYBODY
ABOUT THIS AHEAD OF TIME SO I
DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS GOING TO
ROLL OFF YOUR TONGUE CAST
MEMBER DISH OR IF STAFF CAN
RESPOND TO IT EASILY.
ALSO IN THIS ORDINANCE IT SAYS
THIS IS MAINTAINING THE
LANGUAGE AROUND THE PURSELL
MUST HAVE A MINIMUM OF SEVENTY
FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET OF LA
AREA WHICH SEEMS TO BE A BIT
OF A ALSO ANOTHER LIMITING
FACTOR.
AND SO I WAS JUST CURIOUS IF
YOU RECALL THAT OR IF STAFF
MIGHT BE PRESENT TO BE ABLE TO
ANSWER THAT QUESTION.
I CAN GET THE ANSWER TO IT
LATER AS WELL IF IT'S IF IT'S
NECESSARY BUT IT SEEMS LIKE
SOMETHING DOWN THE LINE THAT I
ASSUME PLANNING STAFF
CONSIDERED PART OF THIS UPDATE
AS WELL PERHAPS A ROLE WITH MR.
LEONARD
.
MR. LEONARD, DID YOU HEAR MY
QUESTION AND I APOLOGIZE FOR
NOT SENDING THIS TO YOU IN
ADVANCE PROBLEM?
YES.
I HAVE MY PLANNER JULIA SHAKAAR
WHO DID A LOT OF THE LEGWORK ON
THIS.
I WE SIMPLIFIED THE
REQUIREMENTS YOU'LL NOTE THAT
WE NO LONGER REFERENCE A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION WITH THIS
CHANGE THAT WAS ACTUALLY
DRIVING SOME OF THESE CHANGES.
WE DID MAINTAIN THE SEVENTY
FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
OF WHAT AREA.
FRANKLY I DON'T REMEMBER A LOT
OF DISCUSSION AROUND IT.
I'LL HAVE A PLANNER SHAKE
CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG IN THAT
REGARD BUT I DO THINK IT IS
INAPPROPRIATE TO MAINTAIN A
MINIMUM LARGE SIZE JUST TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE ARE PROVIDING BOTH
A BALANCE OF OBVIOUSLY THE
CHILD CARE CENTER AND SOME
OUTDOOR SPACE FOR THOSE WE
DON'T GET INTO THE DETAILS
OF HOW MUCH WOULD NEED TO BE
PROVIDED IN THAT REGARD FOR
THIS.
BUT I DON'T IN SHORT I DON'T
RECALL A LOT OF BALANCE.
THAT'S ALSO A PRETTY MODEST
SIZE IN THE CONTEXT OF THE
MEMO.
I THINK FOR OUR ONE CITY ONE
OF OUR DENSITY DISTRICTS CAN
SHAPE ANYTHING THAT YOU WOULD
LIKE TO ADD TO THAT PART OF THE
DISCUSSION CENTERED AROUND THE
ABILITY TO HAVE CLAYFACE SO
CITY THAT HAS THREE TIERS
OF CHILD CARE FACILITIES AND SO
CHILD CARE CENTERS ARE THE
FACILITIES THAT ALLOW FOR 12 OR
MORE CHILDREN AT THE FACILITY.
SO PART OF THE CONSIDERATION
WAS AROUND HAVING ADEQUATE
SPACE FOR A LITTLE BIT LARGER
FACILITIES FOR FOR OUTSIDE PLAY
AREA.
>> NO, NO BUT IT DOES I THAT
THAT WAS WHAT IT WAS.
I AM NOT GOING TO SUGGEST AN
AMENDMENT TONIGHT BUT I DO
THINK THAT IT MIGHT BE
SOMETHING THAT WE MIGHT WANT TO
CONSIDER DOWN THE ROAD IF
WHETHER OR NOT WE MIGHT WANT TO
CHANGE THIS AS WELL AS THAT
PROVIDES ADDITIONAL FLEXIBILITY
IN TERMS OF OPENING UP CHILD
CENTERS.
I THINK THAT YOU KNOW, YOU
MIGHT HAVE A SMALL THAT SIZE
BUT A PARK ACROSS THE STREET
AND YOU KNOW, THE REALITY IS IF
THESE ARE LICENSED BY THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN AND YOU KNOW, MAYBE
THAT'S SHOULD BE OUR OUR
PRIMARY CONCERN SO THAT I DO
LOVE OUTDOOR PLAY SPACE.
I ALSO REALLY LOVE CHILD CARE
CENTERS.
SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE'RE REALLY EASY TO FOR
BECAUSE THIS OPENS UP KATSURAGI
01.
THANK YOU.
I THINK THAT EVERYTHING WAS
COVERED BY EVERYTHING MY
COLLEAGUE SAID AS A MOM OF A
THREE AND FIVE YEAR OLD I AM
REALLY GRATEFUL FOR CHILDCARE
CENTERS AND I THINK THIS WAS
MENTIONED PREVIOUSLY BUT IT
WOULD ALSO HELP THE
WALKABILITY.
I GUESS LOT SIZES ARE IMPORTANT
IN THAT REGARD BECAUSE IN
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT ARE MORE
DENSE HAVING BEING ABLE TO IF I
WAS ABLE TO WALK AND DROP OFF
MY SON NEARBY WOULD REALLY
CHANGE OUR QUALITY OF LIFE.
SO THAT'S THAT'S A GREAT POINT.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
I JUST LIKE TO PILE ON MY
SUPPORT FOR THIS OBVIOUSLY
WORKING PARENTS NEED CHILD CARE
AND THEY'RE THE BLOSSOMING
OF CHILD CARE THROUGHOUT OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS WILL AFFECT
SUBSTANTIAL QUALITY OF LIFE
IMPROVEMENTS FOR FOR WORKING
PARENTS AS WELL AS EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITIES FOR THOSE WHO
LOOK TO HAVE A BUSINESS OF THAT
NATURE.
SO THIS IS A GOOD THING FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVORITE POST.
>> IT IS APPROVED SEE WHAT AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION TEN
FOUR ONE THREE OF CHAPTER ONE
TWENTY SIX TRAFFIC OF TITLE TEN
TRAFFIC OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
THEN BANABA MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
WATSON SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
MALIK DISCUSSION OF C ONE ALL
FAVOR OR OPPOSED TO APPROVED C
TO AN ORDINANCE TO ADD SECTION
EIGHT FIVE THREE TWO TO CHAPTER
ONE ZERO FIVE HOUSING CODE OF
TITLE EIGHT BUILDING
REGULATIONS OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY MEN ARE REMOVED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER READINESS SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF CITY
COUNCIL DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
TONIGHT WE HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY
TO MOVE FORWARD ANOTHER
CRITICAL PIECE OF LEGISLATION
TO FURTHER BALANCE THE SCALES
OF POWER IN LANDLORD TENANT
RELATIONSHIPS HERE IN ANN ARBOR
AND ALSO TO ADDRESS AN
UNCONSCIONABLE PREDATORY
PRACTICE THAT HAS FOR TOO LONG
BEEN DRIVING UP THE COST
OF RENTING AND LIVING IN OUR
CITY.
PRE TENANCY FEES ARE FEES THAT
ARE CHARGED BY LANDLORDS PRIOR
TO THE START OF A LEASE AND AS
WE'VE LEARNED IN MANY CASES
BEFORE, OUR PROSPECTIVE TENANT
HAS EVEN BEEN OFFERED A LEASE
OVER THE
LAST SEVERAL YEARS THE
RENTERS COMMISSION AND EACH
OF US HAVE RECEIVED NUMEROUS
COMPLAINTS FROM RESIDENTS ABOUT
LANDLORDS CHARGING HUNDREDS OR
EVEN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS OFTEN
NONREFUNDABLE PRE TENANCY FEES
TO PROTECT PROSPECTIVE TENANTS
WHO ARE SIMPLY TRYING TO FIND
STABLE HOUSING TO LIVE THEIR
LIVES IN ANN ARBOR THESE ARE
WAITLIST FEES, OPTION FEES
HOLDING FEES AND OTHER FEES
THAT LANDLORDS ARE CHARGING
PRIOR TO A LEASE OR IN MANY
CASES SIMPLY FOR THE PLEASURE
OF BEING CONSIDERED FOR A LEASE
AT ALL.
MOST IF NOT ALL OF THEM ARE
NONREFUNDABLE OR DIFFICULT TO
GET REFUNDED AND THEY ARE IN MY
OPINION INDEFENSIBLY
EXPLOITATIVE, EXPLOITATIVE WAY
FOR SOME LANDLORDS TO PROFIT
EVEN MORE OFF OF OUR HOUSING
CRISIS WHILE FURTHER DRIVING UP
THE COST OF LIVING IN ANN
ARBOR.
THIS PROPOSED ORDINANCE WOULD
BAN ALL OF THESE PREDATORY PRE
TENANCY FEES AND LIMIT ANY
APPLICATION FEE OF FIFTY
DOLLARS AND MAKE IT REFUNDABLE
AFTER SIXTY DAYS IF IT IS NOT
OFFERED.
WELL NOT ALL LANDLORDS ARE
CHARGING THESE FEES AND WHILE
EVEN FEWER HAVE CHARGED SOME
OF THE MOST EGREGIOUS AND
EXCESSIVELY EXPENSIVE FEES THAT
WE'VE HEARD ABOUT, THIS
PRACTICE IS WIDESPREAD ENOUGH
THAT IT WARRANTS AND REQUIRES
OUR INTERVENTION.
THIS LEGISLATION AIMS TO MAKE
RENTING MORE AFFORDABLE AND
ACCESSIBLE BY PREVENTING ALL
LANDLORDS FROM TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF PROSPECTIVE TENANTS PRIOR TO
THEIR MOVE IN.
IT IS ANOTHER STEP TOWARD
CREATING A MORE FAIR JUST AND
TRANSPARENT RENTAL MARKET HERE
IN ANN ARBOR AND IT SEEKS TO
END THE PRE TENANCY
PROFITEERING THAT
DISPROPORTIONATELY IMPACTS LOW
AND MIDDLE INCOME RENTERS WHO
SIMPLY CANNOT AFFORD TO PAY
THESE EXORBITANT FEES
PARTICULARLY ACROSS MULTIPLE
PROPERTIES WITHOUT ANY
GUARANTEE THAT THEY WILL EVEN
BE OFFERED A LEASE AT THE END
OF THE PROCESS.
THIS LEGISLATION HAS BEEN A
LONG TIME COMING AND I WANT TO
THANK THE RENTERS COMMISSION
ESPECIALLY CHAIR RULES ANITA
RATCLIFFE AND FORMER CHAIR
ZACHARIA FERA THE TENANTS UNION
CITY STAFF ESPECIALLY ATTORNEYS
RISER AND RICHARDS AND COUNCIL
MEMBER CYNTHIA HARRISON FOR
THEIR HARD WORK ALONGSIDE ME TO
BRING THIS IMPORTANT
LEGISLATION FORWARD.
I HOPE THAT MY COLLEAGUES WILL
JOIN ME IN ADVANCING THIS
LEGISLATION TO A SECOND READING
AND CONTINUE THE HARD BUT
NECESSARY WORK OF REBALANCING
THE SCALES OF POWER IN
AMERICA'S RENTAL MARKET ON
BEHALF OF OUR RESIDENTS.
IF I STILL HAVE TIME I DO HAVE
A WHAT WILL HOPEFULLY BE
FRIENDLY AMENDMENT.
I MOVE TO AMEND THE PROPOSED
ORDINANCE TO STRIKE THE
EXISTING LANGUAGE OF ETSY.
THE PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
SERVICES UNIT SHALL BE
RESPONSIBLE FOR ENFORCING THE
SECTION AND REPLACE IT INSTEAD
WITH THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR OR
THEIR DESIGNEE SHALL BE
RESPONSIBLE FOR ENFORCING THE
SECTION THAT THAT WAS THE CLERK
AND ASKED THAT SHE CIRCULATED.
IS THERE A SECOND COUNCILOR
CORNELL, VERY BRIEFLY, THIS IS
AN EFFORT WE KNOW FROM THE
COMMUNICATION FROM STAFF THAT
THIS WILL LIKELY REQUIRE AN
ADDITIONAL FTE FOR ENFORCEMENT
.
THIS WILL ALLOW US THE
FLEXIBILITY TO MAKE SURE THAT
AS THAT PERSON COMES ON THAT WE
PLACE THEM IN THE RIGHT PLACE
AND SO IT ALLOWS THE
ADMINISTRATOR TO ENVISION THAT
POTENTIALLY IN A DIFFERENT
DEPARTMENT AND SO JUST MAKING
THAT FLEXIBILITY POSSIBLE, IT
MAY END UP IN THE PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT SERVICES UNIT BUT
IF NOT THIS WOULD ALLOW US THAT
FLEXIBILITY AMENDMENT FRIENDLY
TO THE BODY.
IT'S FRIENDLY TO THE BODY.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
MOTION AS AMENDED COUNCILOR
WATSON, I'M I'M PROUD TO BE A
CO-SPONSOR ON THIS ORDINANCE
BECAUSE I HAVE SOME RECENT
EXPERIENCE WITH PRE TENANCY
FEES ABOUT THREE YEARS AGO I
WAS LOOKING AT APARTMENTS AFTER
MY ROOMMATE MOVED OUT AND ONE
OF THE PLACES I WAS LOOKING AT
DIDN'T EXPLAIN THERE WAS A
WAITLIST FEE UNTIL AFTER I HAD
VISITED THE UNIT IN PERSON.
I REMEMBER THINKING THAT I WAS
ESSENTIALLY PAYING FOR THE
PRIVILEGE OF BEING ADDED TO A
LIST WITH NO GUARANTEE I WOULD
BE ABLE TO LIVE IN THAT
APARTMENT.
I DIDN'T I DIDN'T END UP
SUBMITTING THE APPLICATION AT
THAT PLACE BECAUSE IT DIDN'T
SEEM FAIR.
I CAN ALSO IMAGINE IT WOULD BE
AN UNDUE BURDEN FOR PEOPLE WITH
LOW INCOMES LIKE STUDENTS OR
PEOPLE USING A VOUCHER TO HAVE
TO PAY TO GET ADDED TO THESE
WAIT LISTS ESPECIALLY IF THEY
NEED TO APPLY TO MULTIPLE
APARTMENTS ON A TIME CRUNCH TO
ENSURE HAVING A PLACE TO LIVE.
THIS IS AN INITIATIVE THAT CAME
ORGANICALLY FROM ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS ON THE RENTERS
COMMISSION AND THEIR COUNCIL
LIAISON'S COUNCIL DENHA AND
HARRISON, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR WORK AND
ADVOCACY ON THIS ISSUE.
I'M GRATEFUL AS WELL TO THE
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE FOR THE CLEAR
LANGUAGE IN THE AUDIENCE AND
THIS WILL BE AN IMPROVEMENT FOR
RENTERS.
>> I HOPE YOU'LL JOIN ME IN
SUPPORTING IT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
MOTION I'M SORRY COUNCIL RIGHT?
>> YEAH, I JUST I SUPPORT THIS
AND I'D LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR PLEASE CASTLEROCK.
>> I'D ALSO LIKE TO BE ADDED AS
A CO-SPONSOR.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR DOING
THIS INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT WORK
WORK TOGETHER.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR DOING
ALL THE INCREDIBLE WORK.
>> AND I'D ALSO LIKE TO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR CASSEROLE
DISH.
>> I HAVE A QUESTION.
SO IF SO THE THE APPLICATION
FEE MUST BE REFUNDED AFTER
SIXTY DAYS IF THE APPLICANT IS
NOT OFFERED ELISE WHAT IS THE
APPLICANT THEMSELVES FINDS A
DIFFERENT APARTMENT AND WANTS
THEIR APPLICATION FEEDBACK
WOULD THAT BE POSSIBLE PERHAPS
PERHAPS ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
GETTING IN JENNIFER RICHARDS
CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE COULD
YOU PLEASE REPEAT THE QUESTION
SO MY QUESTION IS IF A IF
SOMEONE HAS PUT IN APPLICATION
FEES IT MORE THAN ONE PLACE AND
THEY SETTLE ON ONE PLACE, CAN
THEY ASK FOR THEIR SO THE
ORDINANCE SAYS THAT IF THEY ARE
REFUSED YOU KNOW, IF THEY DON'T
GET A LEASE FROM THE PERSON THE
PERSON HAS TO GIVE THEM THEIR
APPLICATION BACK.
BUT WHAT IF THEY DO MULTIPLE
APPLICATIONS?
CAN THEY THEN GET THEM BACK
FROM THE PLACES THAT THEY END
UP NOT GOING TO?
>> MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
THEY WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO THE
WAY IT'S WRITTEN IS THAT IF THE
LANDLORD DOESN'T OFFER IT THEN
THAT'S WHEN THE REFUND WOULD
COME INTO PLAY.
SO IF THEY WERE OFFERED AND
DIDN'T TAKE IT OUT OF THE
TENANTS OWN VOLITION THEN THEY
WOULDN'T GET THEIR APPLICATION
FEE BACK.
THAT'S WHAT I THOUGHT AND THAT
MAKES SENSE TO ME AND I WOULD
ALSO LIKE TO THANK MY
COLLEAGUES FOR ALL OF YOUR WORK
AND THEIR ELOQUENCE IN
EXPLAINING THEIR WORK AND I
WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR FURTHER DISCUSSION
OR FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED MISS CORACLE SASHA.
YES MAYOR.
THERE IS A REQUEST FOR A CLOSED
SESSION UNDER MCO FIFTEEN POINT
TWO SIX EIGHT SECTION WHAT AGE
TO DISCUSS THE PRIVILEGE
OF CONFIDENTIAL MEMO PROVIDED
COUNSEL ON DECEMBER 13TH 2024
MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO GO
INTO CLOSED SESSION ON THAT
BASIS MY COUNSEL WILL EITHER
SECOND BY COUNSEL NO BRITISH
DISCUSSION OF THE CLOSED
SESSION ROLL CALL THOUGH PLEASE
START WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
COUNCIL REDISH YES SIR HARRISON
ABSENT COUNCILMAN WATSON.
YES SIR.
MALIK YES.
I'M SORRY DENHA YES I WAS
WORKING 012 YES.
RETAILOR YES CUSTOMER IGHER YES
CUSTOMER ACRON YES.
CUSTOMER BRIGS YES.
CUSTOMER CARNEL YES MOTION
CARRIES IN CLOSED SESSION
OPEN
SESSION DC ONE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE TO
THE FIRST AMENDED AND RESTATED
GENERAL SERVICES AGREEMENT WITH
RECYCLING ANN ARBOR FOR
OPERATION OF THE DROP STATION
FOR A ONE YEAR CONTRACT
EXTENSION WITH AN OPTION FOR A
ONE YEAR RENEWAL ESTIMATED COST
OF AMENDMENT OF ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY THREE THOUSAND SIX
HUNDRED AND TWO DOLLARS EIGHTY
FOUR CENTS RENEWAL UP TO ONE
HUNDRED THIRTY SEVEN THOUSAND
SIX HUNDRED TEN DOLLARS NINETY
SIX CENTS TOTAL 270 1213
DOLLARS EIGHTY CENTS MOVE BY
CUSTOMER DENHA BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF ONE COUNCIL CUSTOMER CORNELL
I MOVE TO BE RECUSED FROM THIS
CONVERSATION DUE TO A COMPETING
FIDUCIARY RESPONSIBILITY DUE TO
MY ROLE AS THE BOARD CHAIR
OF THE ECOLOGY CENTER IN ANN
ARBOR.
>> THERE ARE SECOND SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
DISCUSSION ON FABER AND OPPOSED
COUNCIL MEMBERS RECUSED FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF DC ONE COUNCIL
BRITISH SO IT WHAT WE ARE DOING
HERE IS TO EXTEND THE CONTRACT
WITH FERRARE TO OPERATE THE
CITY'S DROPOFFS STATION FOR ONE
YEAR.
EXCUSE ME AND TO GIVE THEM A
COST ADJUSTMENT THAT AMOUNTS TO
A LITTLE BIT MORE THAN DOUBLE
OF WHAT THEY ARE RECEIVING TO
PROVIDE THIS SERVICE FOR US NOW
I WANT TO JUST AFFIRM THE
IMPORTANCE OF APPROVING THIS
BECAUSE IF THEIR CONTRACT
EXPIRES IT IS NOT CLEAR WHETHER
THERE IT IS OK FOR THEM TO
OPERATE.
THEY MAY BE ABLE TO BUT WE WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT THE PAY
INCREASE GOES THROUGH THAT A
BENEFICIAL THING AND AS AS EVER
I THINK IT IS WE ARE IN THE
RARE FORTUNATE POSITION
OF HAVING A MISSION DRIVEN
RECYCLER WHO TAKES CHARGE
OF THESE MATTERS FOR US AND WHO
ACTIVELY SEEKS OUT MARKETS FOR
MATERIALS AND DOES NOT ACCEPT
MATERIALS THAT THERE ARE NOT
MARKETS FOR.
SO WE DON'T WISH CYCLE IN ANN
ARBOR AND THAT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT.
>> BUT I I BELIEVE THAT THIS
AGREEMENT LOOKS TO ME THAT IT
IS BENEFICIAL.
IT IS IT PROVIDES SECURITY FOR
OUR AREA AND IT PROVIDES
SECURITY FOR THE CITY AND I
HOPE I K THAT THERE ARE
UNRESOLVED ISSUES ALSO AROUND
OTHER ISSUES ABOUT THE THE DROP
OFF STATION AND I'M CONFIDENT
THAT STAFF WILL CONTINUE TO
NEGOTIATE WITH OUR AND I'M SURE
THAT THAT WILL ULTIMATELY I
HOPE THAT THAT WILL ULTIMATELY
REACH A GOOD CONCLUSION THAT
EVERYONE CAN LIVE WITH BECAUSE
WE HAVE REALLY TWO VERY
IMPORTANT THINGS HERE AN
IMPORTANT SERVICE AND IMPORTANT
SERVICE PROVIDER AND STAFF
THAT'S WORKING HARD TO GET US
ALL THE THINGS THAT WE NEED.
>> SO VOTE YES FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
>> DO YOU SEE ONE?
>> FOR MY PART I'M EXCITED THAT
THIS IS IS COMING FORWARD.
WE OF COURSE, YOU KNOW, ARE
GRATEFUL TO HAVE A LONG
STANDING RELATIONSHIP, A
SERVICE RELATIONSHIP WITH WITH
RECYCLING.
IT IS OUR GREAT BENEFIT TO HAVE
A MISSION DRIVEN PROVIDER IN
OUR COMMUNITY AND THROUGHOUT
WASHINGTON COUNTY.
I WILL ALSO SAY THAT THERE IS A
FAIR BIT OF UNCERTAINTY AS
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH INDICATED
WITH RESPECT TO THE THE FUTURE
OF THE DROPOFF STATION.
>> THERE ARE SOME A LOT OF WORK
THAT NEEDS TO BE DONE ON THE
STAFF SIDE AND I AM INCREDIBLY
GRATEFUL FOR THE WORK THAT
STAFF HAS DONE TO DATE WITH
RESPECT TO THE DROP OFF STATION
AND THIS CONTRACT AND FOR FOR
MY PART I AM, YOU KNOW, REALLY
GRATEFUL FOR STAFF'S DILIGENCE
,FOR THEIR FOURTH FORETHOUGHT,
FOR THEIR PROFESSIONALISM AND
THE CARE WITH WHICH THEY ARE
PUTTING THIS THE CARE WITH
WHICH THEY ARE WORKING TO HAVE
A SERVICE PROVIDED FOR
RESIDENTS OF THE CITY OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR WITH RESPECT
TO WHICH WE CAN ALL BE PROUD,
WE HAVE RECYCLED IN ANN ARBOR
FOR MANY YEARS AND I KNOW THAT
WE'RE GOING TO BE DOING SO IN
THE IN THE FUTURE AND I AM
EXCITED THAT WE ARE GOING TO
HAVE ANOTHER CONTRACT AND HAVE
THAT HAVE THAT RELATIONSHIP IN
BLACK AND WHITE.
SO THIS IS THE WAY THAT IT IS
THE WAY IT'LL BE FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED
IT IS APPROVED OF COUNCIL
MEMBER DC TWO RESOLUTION TO
APPOINT AARON COOPER AND
PATRICIA MANLEY TO THE
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION MOVI
COUNCIL MEMBER WATTON SCANBUY
BY COUNCIL MEMBER ON DISCUSSION
OF DC TO IN FAVOR OR POSED IS
APPROVED WITH TEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE SATISFYING THE
SEVEN VOTE REQUIREMENT DC ONE
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SUMMARY
PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCE TWO
FOUR TO NINE AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND SECTION FIVE THAT ONE
FIVE AND FIVE THAT ONE SIXTH
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY OF NRA
PERMITTED USE TABLES FOR CHILD
CARE CENTER AND PRIVATE SCHOOL
USES AND USE SPECIFIC STANDARDS
FOR CHILD CARE CENTER USES MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER THIS SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
>> IT'S APPROVED WE HAVE BEFORE
US THE CLERKS ARE PART
OF COMMUNITY COMMUNICATIONS.
>> PETITIONS AND REFERRALS CAN
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE CLASS SUPPORT MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN MCCONNELL BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IA.
>> I DID DISCUSSION SUPPORT
SUPPORT IN FAVOR OPPOSE THE
CLERK'S SUPPORT IS APPROVED THE
MOTION IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW.
>> I HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
PLEASE MOVE BY PETITION.
THANK YOU.
>> ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY?
NO THANK YOU.
OH WE HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
PLEASE MOVE BY DESHAUN WATSON
DISCUSSION ON FAVRE POSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED